 
 
 
   Cooking in old Cr&#233;ole days. La cuisine cr&#233;ole &#224; l'usage des petits m&#233;nages.   Eustis, C&#233;lestine.  Cookery, Creole. African American cookery.  Sample recipes: Gumbo Fil&#233;. Creme d'Orge. Okra Gumbo. Crab Gumbo. Herb Gumbo.  New York, R. H. Russell  Electronic edition created by Digital &amp; Multimedia Center, Michigan State University Libraries, East Lansing, Michigan, 2002-2003.  Supplementary material by Jan Longone, Anne-Marie Rachman, Peter Berg, Yvonne Lockwood, and Val Berryman  1904  Text  xml-external-parsed-entity  gif  quicktime  http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/cuisinecreole.xml  OCLC 24449067   en  Digitized as part of "Feeding America: The Historic American Cookbook Project." Michigan State University Libraries, East Lansing, Michigan, 2002-2003. http://digital.lib.msu.edu/cookbooks/  United States&gt;  Twentieth century  The book digitized here was published in the United States before 1923 and is in the public domain according to U.S. copyright law. The digital version and supplementary materials are made available for all educational uses.  
 
     An illustration of two shelves with three decorative plates on each one.   LA CUISINE CR&#233;OLE &#224; L'USAGE  DES PETITS M&#233;NAGES  BY  ILLUSTRATED BY HARPER PENNINGTON.  
     STAND FAST  Grant  ENDOWMENT FUND  The seal of the Beatrice V. Grant Stand Fast Endowment Fund.   BEATRICE V. GRANT  MSU 1929 - 1965  PROFESSOR of FOODS &amp; NUTRITION COLLECTOR of RARE COOKERY BOOKS  Her private collection of rare cookery books was donated by her sister, Dr. Rhoda Grant, to the MSU Libraries, May 1984.  
    Mary Mumsey  property  of the author C&#233;lestine Eustis 1911 
 Handwritten Inscription 
 
    
    THE STRENGTH OF THE  NATION IS IN THE HANDS OF THE COOK. FEED A MAN WELL, HE WILL WORK WELL, HE WILL FIGHT WELL  
      
     A YOUNG DARING FROG DRIVER ON THE DU BROCA PLANTATION, WEST BATON ROUGE, LA.  An illustration of a carriage being driven by a man with a whip and four horses. There is a sign in the background saying NORD and points to the right.      LA CHANSON DE TOBIE LE FOQUE La vie y'ien car-osse pas-s&#233; Les cra-paux bien at - te - l&#233;s, quatre wa wa-rons fris-s&#233;s pou-dr&#233;s &#233;-tait dans - ce car- osse &#231;'&#233;tait la v&#233; - ri - t&#233; Il s'en al-lait au nord.  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.   
    
     There is a decorative border around the all of the following contents of the title page.   Cooking in old Cr&#233;ole Days  La Cuisine Cr&#233;ole &#224; l'Usage des Petits M&#233;nages  by C&#233;lestine Eustis with an introduction by S. Wier Mitchell Illustrated   There is an illustration of an angel under the word illustrated above.   New York R. H. Russell 1904  
    COPYRIGHT 1903 By CELESTINE EUSTIS  
    DEDICACE  Si ce petit ouvrage peut &#234;tre utile &#224; mes chers neveux et ch&#232;res ni&#232;ces, j'aurais la satisfaction de savoir que mon temps n'a pas &#233;t&#233; perdu, en r&#233;clamant toute l'indulgence du public pour avoir abus&#233; de sa patience.  
    
    INDEX  COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS   Art and Science of Salad Making,  69   Asparagus in the Oven,  46   Asparagus Soup,  47   A Todd Ham,  20   Aunt Anne's Corn-Bread without powder,  52   Aunt Anne's delicious Corn-Bread,  52   Aunt Anne's Hoecake,  53   Baltimore style of making Terrapin Stew without Terrapin,  24   Barley Soup with Celery,  6   Beef Tea,  12   Biscuits made over night,  51   Black Bean Soup,  10   Blanquette of Veal,  34   Bonne Femme Soup,  8   Bouillion &#224; la James Madison,  4   Bread,  78   Brisket of Beef,  19   Buckner Punch,  83   Caf&#233; Parfait,  84   Calf's Head Soup,  10   Calf's Liver &#224; la C&#233;leste Smith,  35   Candied Orange,  61   Canvasback Duck,  30   Caramel Pudding,  58   Carrots,  44   Chicken Broth,  12   Chicken Casserole,  30   Chicken Croquettes,  32   Chicken Panade,  12   Chicken Pie,  32   Chinese Rice,  14   Chocolate Icing,  68   Chowder for eight Persons,  11   Claret Punch,  83   Codfish &#224; la E'spagnole,  26   Codfish Balls,  25   Codfish Cakes,  25   Cold Tea,  49   Common Cake,  65   Corn Bread,  54   Corn Cake,  54   Corn Meal Bread,  55   Corn Oysters,  48   Corn Pone,  54   Corn Pudding,  60   Couche Couche,  55   Courtbouillion of Fish,  27   Crab Gumbo,  3   Crawfish Bisque,  4   Cream &#224; la C&#233;lestine,  56   Cr&#232;me d'Orge,  1   Cucumber Catsup,  37   Custard Bread,  61   Daube Glac&#233;e,  17     Delicate Cake,  65   Delicious Breakfast Dish,  14   Delicious Fish Balls,  25   Delicious Stew,  21   Devilled Crabs,  26   Devilled Crabs--New Orleans Style,  27   Drop Puffs,  64   Dutch Sauce,  34   "Edge Hill" Cooked Apples,  58   "Eggnogg,"  83   Egg Plant,  43   Eggs &#224; la Morelle,  48,  51   Eggs, Portuguese style,  48   Filet Marine,  19   Flat Cookies,  66   Floating Island,  57   Foods that Steal Flavors,  79   For Broiling Chicken,  31   Fried Carrots,  43   Fruit in Its Own Juice,  62   Gingerbread,  63,  66   Ginger Cake,  64   Globe Artichokes,  43   Gofio,  79   Graham Wheatlets,  55   Gumbo Fil&#233;,  1,  78   Ham fried with Sugar,  20   Hard Custard,  57   Herb Gumbo,  3   Hints for Housekeepers,  76   Hominy Bread and Waffles,  53   Hopping John,  14,   16   How to cook Mushrooms in a Chafing Dish half an hour before serving,  47   How to destroy Flies,  79   How to make a Caramel,  61   How to make a good Soup with what remains from Breakfast,  82   How to make Drip Coffee,  49   How to make Tea,  49   How to roast Ducks,  30   How to serve Chicken,  31   Indian Sponge Cake,  66   Jerusalem Artichokes,  43,  46   Jumballaya,  15   Jumballaya &#224; la Cr&#233;ole,  13   Jumballaya (A Spanish Creole dish),  14   Kidney Stew,  21   Leg of Mutton,  20   Leonie Penin's Dry Cake,  65   Leonie's Cake,  66   Loaf Bread,  51   Loaf of Gingerbread,  63   Lobster Sauce,  35   Lucchetti, Fried,  45   Macaroni Pie,  48   Manchester Ice-Cream,  57   Meringue Pudding,  59   Mince-Meat,  61   Molasses Cake,  67   Molasses Gingerbread,  63   "Monica's" way to cook Fish,  28   Monkey Pudding,  59   Mrs. Kelly's delicious Mutton Stew,  21   Mu ffins,  50   New England Chowder,  10   New Orleans Oyster Soup,  9   New Orleans Veal Balls,  36   New Orleans Veal with Oysters,  33   New Orleans way to cook Snipe,  32   Nice cold Dish for Lunch,to be eaten with Salad,  22   Okra Gumbo, 2   Okra Hibiscus,  78   Okra Soup,  6     Oyster and Peanut Soup,  9   Oyster Soup,  9   Pancakes,  56   Partridge &#224; la "Uncle John,"  28   Plain Boiled Rice,  13   Plain Rice Pudding,  60   Plum Pudding,  58   Pop-Overs,  54   Porcupine Pudding,  59   Potato Balls,  28   Pot au Feu,  5   Potomac Herrings with Roe,  26 
  Potted Veal,  23   Praline Cocoanut,  62   Praline Pecans,  62   Raw Beef Soup,  12   Riz &#224; la Valencienne,  15   Roast Beef,  18   Rolls,  50   Sally Lunn,  53, 54   Sauce, &#224; la Newberg, for Lobster,  27   Sauce B&#233;arnaise,  34   Sauce Bordelaise,  35   Sauce for Wild Duck,  35   Sauce for Veal Balls,  36   Simple, clear Tomato Soup,  7 
  Small Sponge Cake,  66   Soda Biscuits,  50   Soft Custard,  57   Sorrel Soup,  6   Souffl&#233; Biscuits,  52   Soup without Meat,  8   Southern Tomato Soup,  7   Spiced Beef,  36   Spinach,  45   Squash,  44   Stewed Tongue for Lunch,  37   Strawberry Shortcake,  64   String Beans,  45   Stuffing for Fowls,  29   Stuffing for Turkeys and Ducks,  28   Swedish Cream,   58  Sweet Potato Buns,  55   Sweet Potatoes,  37,38   Sweet Potato Pudding,  38   Sweet Wafers,  67   Terrapin,  23   Terrapin Stew,  23   The way to tell good Mushrooms from poisonous ones,  47   Thick Water Biscuits,  52   Thin Water Biscuits,  51   To boil a Westphalia Ham,  20   To broil a Steak,  19   To cook and serve Tomatoes,  38   Tomato Curry,  22   Tomatoes,  57   Tomato Soup,  7   To stew Lamb and Peas,  21   Turkey Stuffing,  29   Veal Croquettes,  22   Veal Terrapin,  24   Waffles,  50   Yorkshire Pudding, to serve with Hot Roast Beef,  18   UN PITI DINE CREOLES AUX DELEGUES DE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLOB.......................... 87   A SMALL CREOLE DINNER TO THE DELEGATES OF THE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLUB................. 89     LA CUISINE CREOLE  A l'Usage des Petits M&#233;nages,  85   Bananes,  106   B&#233;cassines de la Nouvelle Orl&#233;ans,  100   Blanquette de Veau,  99   Brandade de Morue,  101   Calas,  108   Cervelles de Mouton Pand&#233;es,  106   Cervelles de Veau ou Mouton au Beurre Noir,  100   Cornbread,  108   C&#244; tes de Homard,  101   Crabes Farcis,  101   Cr&#232;me &#224; la Glace &#224; la C&#233;lestine,   111  Daube Glac&#233;e &#224; la Cr&#233;ole de Madame Rouzan, n&#233;e Olivier  94   Daube Glac&#233;ede Madame Eustis, M&#232;re,  97   Farce pour P&#226;t&#233;s ou pour des Dindes ou pour des Volailles,  99   Flan aux Cerises,  111   Foie de Veau &#224; la C&#233;leste,  98   Fromage &#224; la Cr&#232;me,  110   Gateau Praline ou Ile Flottante,  112   Gateau Sec de L&#233;onie Penin,  109   Gombo de Crabes,  92   Gombo F&#233;vis,  91   Gombo Fil&#233;,  91   Gombo Zherbes,  92   Gratin aux Pommes de Terre,  105   Grillades de Veau, de Madame Josephine Micaud,  98   Haricots Verts,  104   Haricots Verts, Ma&#238;;tre d'H&#244;tel,  104   Jambalaya,  94   La Saccamit&#233;,  106   Maryland Biscuits,  109   Muffins,  108   Oseille,  105   Pain Blanc,  108   Pain Noir,  109   Patates Douces au Four,  104   Perdrix aux Choux,  99   Petit Avis aux M&#233;nag&#232;res,  112   Pommes Cuites &#224; la Thomas Jefferson,  111   Pommes de Terre Souffl&#233;es,  105   Potage Marini&#232;re,  93   Pour Fond de Cuisine,  102   Pour Faire au Bon Caf&#233;,  113   Recette de la Genoise,    126   Riz &#224; l'Anglaise,  111   Riz &#224; la Valencinnes,  94   Rognons de Mouton Saut&#233;s,  100   Salade &#224; la Duc Morny,  106   Sauce B&#233;arnaise,  103   Sauce Blanche,  103   Sauce Bordelaise,  103   Sauce Hubert,  103   Sauce Tartare,  102   Sauce Tomate,  102   Soupe &#224; la Julienne,  93   Soups &#224; l'Oseille,  92   Un Pudding de Mais,  110   Z'Affaire Cabri c'est pas Z'Affaire Mouton,  112    
    ILLUSTRATIONS   A YOUNG DARING FROG DRIVER ON THE DU BROCA PLANTATION, WEST BATON ROUGE, LA..   Frontispiece    BAMBOULA.....................................................................   Facing p .10   TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS.................................................. "  22   NURSE M&#233;RANCE OF THE DESTREHAN PLANTATION, JUST ABOVE NEW ORLEANS..... "  32   THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL ........................................ "  48   SAVANNE...................................................................... "  64   THE CALLAS GIRL.............................................................. "  94   THE OLD FRENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW ORLEANS........................... "  108    
    
    INTRODUCTION  A friend of mine, in the South, once said to me, that the surrender at Appomatox had brought about two serious calamities--an end to duelling and the disappearance of the colored cook. We may at least agree with him that the latter result is a matter deeply to be deplored by all who, like myself, remember the marvellous skill of the Southern cooks. I used to be of opinion that the frying-pan should be our national emblem, so complete was its culinary despotism in New England and the West; indeed, when once I was at Marquette and Duluth, buying a camp outfit, there was not a  gridiron  for sale in either town. But in the hands of a colored cook even the frying-pan ceased to be an instrument for producing dyspepsia; and what other black art there was in the kitchens where the dark mammys reigned, who now can say? It was a rule-of-thumb business which was never written, save in some old-time receipt book, and was literally handed down from one generation to another.  The well-mannered colored folk, with aristocratic tastes, still existed in my native city when I was young. One of them, who was formerly my nurse, was always sent for to cook the terrapin when there was a dinner party. She turned the other servants out of the kitchen, and performed her kindly incantations alone! North of us, no one has ever been able to cook terrapin, which accounts for many things. As a race, we are certainly not gifted with culinary   talent, nor have I ever heard of an attempt to patent a receipt or a new salad. It was therefore a great pleasure to see the little book in which my friend has preserved some of the famous receipts of the Creole kitchen. When, too, I saw, and indeed heard, the gay songs which were considered needful to be sung in the making of a Gumbo or of a Jumballaya, I felt that this was an addition to the business of the cook which must have lifted it to the level of the Arts we call Fine; for surely the mingling of music with a sauce or a salad dressing is a refinement of which no  cordon bleu  has ever dreamed! I have heard of but one other use of song in the preparation of food. A certain bishop, staying in a modest farmhouse, was struck with the fact that, just before breakfast, he heard the cook singing a well-known hymn. On expressing his satisfaction at this act of early devotion, he was told she had discovered that exactly the time needed to sing two verses was that which was required to boil an egg. I am sure there are many who will be charmed by the pretty little songs in the Creole patois of the far Southern kitchen, and will in a double sense appreciate the taste of the receipts, and the effort to preserve the folk-lore of the Southern cook. As I recall her, in Virginia, she was usually a fat woman of middle age, with a gay bandana kerchief about her head--proud of her art, somewhat despotic, and usually known as Aunty.  "A creature not too bright or good For human nature's daily food." S. WEIR MITCHELL 
    LA CUISINE CREOLE A L'USAGE DES PETITS MENAGES De tous les c&#244;t&#233;s mes amis me demandent de recettes de la cuisine cr&#233;ole. On se souvient encore des d&#233;licieuses dindes truff&#233;es de la "Rivi&#232;re Rouge" &#224; moiti&#233; sauvages, engraiss&#233;es aux pacannes et mang&#233;es, rue de la Victoire, chez ma sainte et bonne m&#232;re.--Un Anglaise demande la recette d'un plat d'&#233;pinards, qui lui a valu son c&#x0153;ur. Un fran&#231;ais c&#233;l&#232;bre se souvient d'un d&#233;licieux r&#244;ti de veau, qui est devenu presqu' historique. Un Russe, quoiquehabitant Paris, ne peut oblier des perdrix &#233;touff&#233;es aux tomates... Une &#233;l&#233;gante de New Yorka des souvenirs inoubliables dun riz &#225; la Valenciennes, gout&#233; &#225; Biarritz sur la c&#244;te des Basques, en vue des belles Montagnes d'Espagne! Une autre &#233;l&#233;gante, m'a avou&#233; qu'elle se mourait d'envie de manger du riz sec, comme les cr&#233;oles seules savent le cuire. C'e&#251;t &#233;t&#233; f&#226;cheux de la laisser mourir de faim dans son beau Palais.--Un musicien c&#233;l&#232;bre soupire apr&#232;s des &#x0153;fs &#224; la Portugaise, capable le lui faire manquer une inspiration musicale. Une jeune fille r&#233;clame &#224; grands cris des &#x0153;fs &#224; la morelle, une autre ne peut se consoler de ne plus manger du couchcouche ou couscousse.  Brillat Savarin dit: "qu'il n'y a que les gens d'esprit qui savent manger," "qu'on nait r&#244;tisseur." Alors &#224; moins d'&#234;tre spirituel ou inspir&#233; de Dieux, on ne saurait go&#251;ter ce modeste petit ouvrage, qui resterait une &#233;nigme pour bien des lecteurs; mais l'art de savoir manger et de r&#244;tir, ainsi   que de faire la cuisine peut s'acqu&#233;rir avec un peu de patience, beaucoup d'observation et passablement de soin.--Je ne me propose pas d'&#233;crire un ouvrage culinaire--que Dieu m'en pr&#233;serve!--mais de griffonner seulement &#224; la h&#226;te et au hasard le recette de quelques bons plats cr&#233;oles et bourgeois, que j'ai en la bonne chance d'apprendre &#224; faire en fretant dans de vielles recttes et en causant avec les vieilles comm&#232;res d'autrefois.  Souvent ou demande ce que c'est qu'un gombo cr&#233;ole? c'est un mets indien dont ils se r&#233;galaient g&#233;n&#233;ralment un jour de noce et dont nous jouissions, avant la querre, dans les r&#233;unions intimes apr&#232;s une danse. Il peut se faire avec du gibier, de la volaille, de la dinde, de veau, des rogaatons, &#224; la rigueur m&#234;me un hibou.  Il d&#233;coule de ce mets national parmi les cr&#233;ole, qui leur est si familier que, ce terme "gombo" est devenu une expression g&#233;n&#233;rique tr&#232;s-importante au figur&#233;, par la variet&#233; m&#234;me de sa composition et par cons&#233;quent son imp&#233;n&#233;trabilit&#233; une foise fait, exemple: en litt&#233;rature un "gombom&#234;l&#233;" est une grosse affaire tr&#232;s-compliqu&#233;e, relevant souvent de diff&#233;rends dans les familles nombreuses ou parmi un grand cercle d'amis, et rendue tr&#232;s-confuse.  Ne soyez pas &#233;tonn&#233;s de ces quelques notes de musique, c'est le piment de la sauce. Quand les n&#232;gres travaillent bien, ils sont contents et fiers de leur ouvrage et expriment leur contentement en chantant, c'est l'&#233;loquence de leurs sentiments.  Les fines herbes sont le parfum de la cuisine, mais il faut en user avec la m&#234;me discr&#233;tion que les parfums--ils   sont: oignons, persil, cerfeuil, civette, estragon, feuilles de laurier--afin de laisser &#224; chaque mets son go&#251;t particulier ou son individualit&#233;.--Le secret de la bonne cuisine est: la plus exquise propret&#233;, avoir les m&#233;illeurs ingr&#233;dients, un beurre frais, la meilleure huile d'olive, les &#x0153;ufs tr&#232;s-frais--et beaucoup de temps pour tout pr&#233;parer avec soin; un bon feu &#233;gal, des braises, pas de flammes--le triomphe des gargotiers! La bouillotte est aussi une ennemie fatale de la bonne cuisine; il faut s'en m&#233;fier. Un g&#233;n&#233;ral russe disait que l'eau &#233;tait si d&#233;sagr&#233;able dans les bottes, qu'est-ce que &#231;a devait &#234;tre dans l'estomac! Je n'ai qu'&#224; regarder le feu d'une cuisini&#232;re pour savoir quelle esp&#232;ce de cordon bleu elle est. J'ai entendu &#224; un homme d'esprit dire: que si l'on pendait un gargotier une fois par mois, peut-&#234;tre qu'an bout de l'ann&#233;e on parviendrait &#224; avoir de bons cuisiniers. La cuisine est une grave affaire; la sant&#233; de l'humanit&#233; en d&#233;pend; le bonheur de l'int&#233;rieur y est int&#233;ress&#233;, et la justice pourrait s'en m&#234;ler.  La base de la cuisine cr&#233;ole est le roux. Il faut s'appliquer particuli&#232;rement &#224; bien le faire; autrement vos plats seraient fadasses et trop gras. En voici &#224; peu pr&#232;s la recette; mais la pratique seule en donnera l'exp&#233;rience. Le go&#251;t en est le guide pour l'assaisonnement c'est l&#224; qu'est le talent de l'artiste, comme le sentiment de la po&#233;sie, de la musique, de la peinture, autrement dit, le g&#233;nie.  
    
 
 
    COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS      COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 
  
 GUMBO FIL&#233; 
Put into a casserole (saucepan) a spoonful of pure  lard  and one of  flour,  stir it well until it is of a light brown. Chop an  onion  into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up a  fat capon  or  chicken  into small pieces and put these in the casserole with the  flour  and  lard.  Stir it all the while until the  chicken  is nearly done. When the whole is well browned, add a slice of  ham,  cut up small. Throw in two or three pods of  red pepper,  and  salt  to your taste. Now add a quart of  boiling water,  and leave it on the fire for two hours and a half. A quarter of an hour before dinner is served add three dozen  oysters  with their liquor. Just before taking the soup off the fire, put in a tablespoonful of  filet , stirring it all the while. Let it boil one minute and then serve. Do not put in too much filet; the spoon should not be full. Indeed, half a tablespoonful is enough. --LOUISE LIVINGSTON HUNT,  New Orleans.    
  
 CREME D'ORGE 
One pound of lean  veal,  one pound of lean  beef,  and two ounces of  pearl barley.  Put them into a quart of  cold water  and let it boil down to a pint. Rub all through a sieve. Melt a spoonful of this strengthening  jelly  when required.  
  
 GUMBO FIL&#233; 
Disjoint and cut up a  fowl.  Fry in pan with  onion  cut up. Put in a  soup pot  knuckle of  veal,  fried  fowl  covered in   3 1-2 quarts of  cold water,  let it simmer on back of range about six hours, strain soup and skim off all  grease,  cut up  white meat of chicken  and put in stock with a quart or more of  oysters;  add  salt,   cayenne pepper,   white pepper.  When at boiling point sprinkle in, or sift in,  powdered filet  enough to thicken it. --MRS. EUGENIA PHILLIPS.   For very many years Mrs. Phillips had the most elegant table and the most delicious dishes in Washington, D.C. No one could rival her in taste and daintiness; her hospitality was boundless.   
 Leek and potato soup 
is another of the same French-woman's dishes. Cut several  leeks,  or, if they cannot be had, an  onion  or two, into pieces, and fry them without browning in  butter.  Add  potatoes  cut into dice and a seasoning of  salt  and  pepper,  and boil. When they are soft push them through a  colander,  and thicken with a tablespoonful of  flour  and a tablespoonful of  butter.  For two small  onions  four  potatoes  and a quart of  water  will be wanted. Instead of using the water in which the potatoes have boiled,  milk  may be used.   
  
 OKRA GUMBO 
Put into a saucepan a spoonful of pure  lard  and one of  flour.  Stir it well until it is of a light brown. Chop an  onion  into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up a  fat capon  or  chicken  into small pieces and put it into the saucepan with the flour and lard. Stir it all the while until the chicken is nearly done. When the whole is well browned, add a slice of  ham  cut up small. Throw in two or three pods of  red pepper,  and  salt  to your taste. Then add a quart of  boiling water,  and leave it on the fire for two hours and a half. During that time you take either a   can of  okra  or the fresh  okra,  and chop it up a bit. Put it in a saucepan with a little  water  and let it simmer a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time. Then add to it either six fresh  tomatoes,  or half a can of  tomatoes,  and let it cook on a slow fire for an hour, uncovered. When your gumbo has been on the fire the two hours and a half, you take it off to cool, and skim all the grease off. Then you put it back in the saucepan and add your  okra  and  tomatoes  and let it simmer slowly for an hour or until the  okra  is thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, and eat it with dry  rice  served in a separate dish. --MME. EUSTIS, M&#233;RE.   
  
 CRAB GUMBO 
Take half a pound of nice  veal,  cut it in slices; or take half a  chicken,  which you cut in small pieces. Brown it well, as you do for the  gumbofilet.  Let it simmer on the fire an hour and a half. Pick very carefully twelve or fifteen  crabs,  keeping the flesh only. Warm them up in a separate saucepan with a spoonful of  butter  for a few minutes. Pour it then in your pot over your  veal.  Add a few small pieces of fried  ham.  Season with  salt  and  pepper  to taste. Before you mix the  veal  and  crabs  take out all the large pieces of  veal,  so that the  crabs  may predominate, It should be of a thick consistency. Serve hot, with dry  rice  in a separate dish. --JOSEPHINE NICAUD, New Orleans.    
  
 HERB GUMBO 
Clean and prepare a good handful of fresh  spinach leaves,  a handful of  beetroot leaves,  a handful of  radish leaves,  a handful of  mustard leaves,  a handful of  patience leaves,  one  head of lettuce.  Throw them in  hot water  and let them boil like spinach, then let them drip in a    colander,  chop them all together on a nice clean board, as you do spinach. Fry a dozen small pieces of  ham  cut in pieces an inch long and half an inch wide, and also half a  chicken  cut in pieces, or a piece of  veal,  say half a pound. Add a cup of  water  and let it simmer three quarters of an hour or until all are soft. Then add your  herbs.  Let them simmer together for a quarter of an hour. If it looks too thick add a few tablespoonfuls of  water.  It must have the consistency of a thick puree. To be served hot, and eaten with dry  rice.  --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 CRAWFISH BISQUE 
Take two or three dozen  crawfish,  throw them in  boiling water  for a minute or two, clean them thoroughly. Take off the heads, empty them, and clean them and wash them, keeping the fat part of the tails. Put them on a chopping board with the fat, a little  chicken  or  veal,  a little  stale bread,  chop it all fine together, flavor with  pepper,  red or black,  a laurel leaf,  or put in a bouquet of  aromatic herbs  for a few minutes, having tied it with a thread so as to pull it out. Brown all this in a saucepan with a spoonful of  lard.  Stuff the crawfish heads tight with this. Put them in a saucepan to simmer with a quart of  bouillon  for an hour or more, until you have a good soup. Serve hot. --MME. JOSEPHINE NICAUD,  Who has been for over forty years in Ambassador Eustis' family.    
  
 BOUILLON A LA JAMES MADISON 
Two gallons of  water,  throw in every  bone  you have (ham bones are excellent), with three good sized  carrots,  three  onions,   celery,  a can of  tomatoes.   Salt  and  pepper pod  to taste. Simmer, closely covered, all day and all night.   The next morning strain into a large bowl. If in a hurry set bowl in  cold water,  otherwise put in a celler or on ice. Remove the grease very carefully. Cut up fine, size of dice, three pounds of  rump of beef,  take two  eggs  and break them over the cut meat, yolk and white. Stir freely. Add  celery,   salt  and  pepper,  pour the bouillon on it, settle it on the fire, stir until the froth rises. Skim off very carefully, strain off through a nice clean cloth or flannel. Set aside for use. When ready to serve, warm the quantity desired, throw in small pieces of  celery,  cover closely, throw a bunch of  chervil  and a glass of good  sherry  in the soup according to taste. -- Cook, born in James Madison's family.    
  
 POT AU FEU THE POT AU FEU IS SERVED DAILY IN FRENCH FAMILIES 
Take two pounds of  round of beef,  cutting off all the  fat  very carefully, put it in a good sized saucepan, add  cold water  enough to cover the meat well, put the lid on half way to allow the steam to evaporate, let it simmer by a fire of live coals an hour, and skim carefully as the scum arises. While your broth is cooking, prepare your vegetables, have them nice and fresh, wash and scrape carefully (requisite care must be taken), throw them into a pan of  cold water  until the time to use them. Cut three  carrots  in half, too  leeks  the same way, or half an  onion,  a small piece of  cabbage  and a bit of  garlic,  a piece of  celery,   parsley  and  pepper pod.  Put all these vegetables in your  broth,  adding two or three  tomatoes,  or two spoonfuls of  tomatoes;  let it simmer for two hours, skimming it carefully. It can be served with or without vegetables. Without vegetables it can be served as bouillon, to which you add  rice,   vermicelli,   macaroni,  or any other Italian  paste,  or  bread  dried in the   oven, or drop in a  poached egg,  one for every person, if your dinner is a little short.  These receipts were given to me by an old colored cook who was brought up in James Madison's family, and she said they were served on Mr. Madison's table when he entertained the distinguished guests of his day.  
  
 SORREL SOUP 
Take a handful of  sorrel,  cook it ten minutes in a spoonful of fresh  butter,  add a quart of  water,   salt  and  pepper,  and let it simmer half an hour over a slow fire. Stir in  white of an egg,  and then let it cook two minutes only, stirring it all the time. Rub in a cup the  yolk of an egg  with a small piece of  butter.  Add a cup of  cream.  Put some pieces of  stale bread  cut in slices in the bottom of your  soup tureen.  Chop fine some  chervil  and sprinkle on top just as you serve it very hot. -LENONIE PENIN.   
  
 BARLEY SOUP WITH CELERY 
Melt a heaping spoonful of fresh  butter  in a frying-pan; put to it a cupful of  barley;  let it brown a few moments; add to it two quarts of good  broth,  and  salt  to taste. Let it simmer two hours or more on a slow fire; chop into it small pieces of  celery --let it simmer half an hour. Dissolve in a glassful of  sweet cream  the  yolks of six eggs,  a spoonful of fresh  butter  added in small pieces, and add all to the soup.  
  
 OKRA SOUP 
Soak in a little  cold water  for an hour or two one pint of the  dried okra,  add this with the  water  to one gallon of good strong  beef stock.  Also one quart of  tomatoes,  (strained through a  colander ), a half cupful of  rice,  and one   pint of chopped  Irish potatoes.  Season with  salt,   green pepper,  or  cayenne,  chopped  celery  and  onion.  Boil in a porcelain kettle at least five hours, stirring frequently with a silver spoon, or new wooden spoon, or the soup will become dark. The gallon must be maintained by adding  boiling water  at intervals as required. This should result in a rich, thick soup, such as is liked in the South. Some cooks prefer to boil meat and vegetables together, removing the meat when tender, cutting it into pieces, and returning it to the soup a few minutes before serving. --MRS. WILLIAM C. HILL.   
  
 SIMPLE, CLEAR, TOMATO SOUP 
Boil your  tomatoes  with  onion  and  butter  thoroughly. Add to clear stock, or  broth,  half of  white of egg  to clear. Let it stand, then pass through cheesecloth that has been washed.  
  
 TOMATO SOUP 
Cut one ounce of  ham,  a little  carrot  and  onion  into thin slices, place these in a  stewpan  with two ounces of  butter,  one  bay leaf  and a few  peppercorns.  Add two tablespoonfuls of  flour,  stir together on the fire until it becomes a light brown color. Moisten with a quart of good  broth,  or  stock,  stirring it on a slow fire. Add one quart of canned  tomatoes,  and season with  salt,   pepper  and two ounces of  brown sugar.  Let it boil together for one hour, after being thoroughly strained.  
  
 SOUTHERN TOMATO SOUP 
Southern  tomato soup  is a meal in itself. Wash two quarts of  tomatoes,  and set over the fire in three pints of  water;  cook ten minutes, and drain, saving the water for   the soup; press the tomatoes through a sieve, add to them one  cucumber,  peeled and cut small, one large  onion  sliced, one dozen  okras  (also sliced), a five cent  marrowbone  and the  water  drained from the  tomatoes.  Simmer for three hours, and just before sending to table thicken with a tablespoonful of  flour  wet with  cold water.  Season with  salt,   cayenne  and three pats of  butter.   
  
 BONNE FEMME SOUP 
Shred fine a  cucumber  (already soaked) and four  lettuce,  one  onion  and a handful of  chervil.  Put these into a  soup pot,  with two pats of  butter,  a little  nutmeg,   pepper,  and  salt.  Simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes, then add a good spoonful of  flour,  and three pints of  veal broth.  Boil for a quarter of an hour. Stir into it a  seasoning  of six  yolks of eggs,  half a pint of  cream  and a dessertspoonful of  sugar.  Do not let it boil after the egg and cream are added.  
  
 SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 
Take four or five  cucumbers,  according to their size, pare and cut them in small square pieces; three cupfuls of  lettuce  cut in shreds, two sprigs of  mint,  a little  parsley,  two or three small  onions  (all shredded), with a pint of young  peas.  Put all these  herbs  into a  stewpan,  with nearly a quarter of a pound of  butter,  some  salt,  and a little  cayenne pepper.  They must stew gently for an hour. Boil a pint of old  peas  in a full quart of  water.  When quite soft run them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon, then add them, together with the  water  they have been boiled in, to your stewed herbs, and let them all stew together a full half hour. This soup is all the better if it does not stand long before it is served up.  
 
  
 OYSTER AND PEANUT SOUP 
Take half a pound of shelled and roasted  peanuts,  well pounded. Add two spoonfuls of  flour,  mix well, boil a pint of  oyster water  and mix with the  peanuts  and  flour,  let it thicken slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring all the time. Add a pint of  oysters  and let them cook five minutes. Flavor with  salt,   red and black pepper.  --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 OYSTER SOUP 
Wash and drain two quarts of  oysters,  put them on the fire with three quarts of  water,  three  onions  chopped up, two or three slices of lean  ham,   pepper  and  salt.  Boil until it is reduced one half, strain through a sieve. Return the liquid into the pot. Put in one quart of fresh  oysters.  Boil until they are sufficiently done and thicken the soup with four spoonfuls of  flour,  two gills of rich  cream,  and the  yolks  of two nice fresh  eggs,  well beaten. Boil it a few minutes after the thickening is put in. Take care that it does not curdle, and that the  flour  is not in lumps. Serve it up with the last  oysters  that were put in. If the flavor of  thyme  is agreeable you may put in a little, but take care that it does not boil in it long enough to discolor the soup. --MARY RANDOLPH   
  
 NEW ORLEANS OYSTER SOUP 
Make "a brown." A brown is made by putting a lump of  butter  or  lard  into a saucepan, adding  flour,  and stirring until it becomes a rich brown, but is not burned. Add to your brown,  salt  and  pepper.  Take a quart of  oysters,  separate them from their  water.  Add a pint of fresh  water  to your brown, then put in the  oyster water,  let it simmer   slowly for half an hour. Then put in a little  parsley.  Add your  oysters  a quarter of an hour before serving, and small pieces of  fried bread  or  biscuits.  A few minutes before serving  cayenne pepper  can be added to taste, also  vermicelli  instead of  crackers,  or small  green onions.  --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 BLACK BEAN SOUP 
One pint of black  Mexican beans,  put them in five pints of  water  (without soaking), boil about five hours. Pass beans and liquid through a sieve, half an hour before serving; do it thoroughly, that it may be thick enough. Put it back into the pot with  salt,   pepper,  bunch of  thyme,   onions,  a quarter of  lemon  cut in thin slices, and a tablespoonful of  butter.  Have two  eggs, boiled hard,  cut up in your  tureen,  and a wineglass of good  wine.  Pour  soup  on it and give it a stir. --MRS. MORRIS ADDISON.   
  
 CALF'S HEAD SOUP 
First cut the  head  in half, take out the  brains,  crack up the head, wash it, put it in the pot, boil half an hour. Take out, wash, clean and scrape it, put back in the pot, boil until soft, take out, pick out all the  bones.  Part the lean  meat  from the jelly meat. Cut up the  jelly meat  fine. Put back in the pot, thicken with  flour,  seasone with  cloves,   black pepper,   onions  and  wine.   --"UNCLE JOHN"-- the best chef in South Carolina, Mr. Le Garee's and Mrs. Phoenix's cook.    
  
 NEW ENGLAND CHOWDER 
Have a fresh, firm  cod  or  haddock,  a  fish  about five pounds is the best size. Take saucepan large enough to hold a little more than you wish to make. Cut  salt pork  in    BAMBOULA Quand pat-tat la cuit n'a man-ge li, n'a man-ge li,  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        BAMBOULA Gottschalks's famous "Bamboule" was written on this theme  There is an illustration of a girl in a dress dancing with a plate of food under her foot.       small squares about the size of dice, and fry quite brown. Lay in the same pan alternate layers of thin sliced  potatoes  first, then slices of  fish,  then broken  water crackers,  small  fried pork,  shreds of raw  onion,   black pepper  and  salt  to suit the taste. Continue the layers until you have used up your material. Pour over it the  pork fat  from the scraps and half a pint of  water,  to keep from burning at the bottom. Close the saucepan tight and set on the fire. Cook slowly, without stirring, for forty-five minutes, when it is ready for the table. As some  fish  cook drier than others, if you do not find the chowder thin enough to serve well in  tureen,  add some fresh  milk  just before taking up, and let it come to a boil. --PARKER HOUSE,  Boston, Sept. 23, 1873.    
  
 CHOWDER FOR EIGHT PERSONS 
Boil, mash and pass through a  colander  six  potatoes.  Slice and fry brown six  onions.  Soak quite soft two ship  biscuits.  Fry four slices of  salt pork,  the  fat  cut in small dice. Cut in pieces about an inch thick three or four pounds of  fish,  either  cod  or  sea bass,  or  blackfish,  which are the best; then proceed as follows: Put in your pot four tablespoonfuls of  butter,  and two of  salt,  scatter a portion of the fried  onion  in it, then a layer of  fish,  free from  bones,  season with a teaspoonful of  black pepper,  half teaspoonful of grated  nutmeg,  half of  cloves,  add a bouquet of  thyme,  then put in a layer of  potatoes.  Repeat the same operation, leaving out the  spice  and  thyme.  Then pour in stock enough to cover the whole about four inches, place on the fire, add the  biscuit  and  pork,  and three tablespoonfuls of chopped  parsley,  and cook slowly for an hour. Then add the  juice of a lemon,  and five lumps of  sugar.  Color the soup a dark brown. When ready to serve add a  tumbler  of  sherry.    --Compliments of  MR. PETER MARIE.   
 
  
 CHICKEN PANADE 
Boil a large  fowl  in a quart and a half of  water,  and boil down to a quart. Skim the fowl and pound it,  bones  and all, in a  mortar.  Spread this  paste  in a sieve and rub it through. Then pour it over the liquor in which the  fowl  was boiled, and pour the mixture hot over a stale  French roll,  well grated. Take a little frequently throughout the day.  
  
 RAW BEEF SOUP 
One pound of chipped  beef.  Put into a  preserve jar  with four ounces of  water  and four drops of  muriatic acid  poured over it. Put the top down tight, shake, and put on the ice for twelve hours, then put the jar into a pan of cold water ( bain-Marie ) and put it on the fire for an hour until the  water  is hot, then strain the contents of the jar off with pressure through a cloth, and put it on the ice until it is cold. Take it off the ice and let it stand ten minutes before serving.  Salt  to taste.  
  
 CHICKEN BROTH 
Take a  chicken  or  fowl  (small pieces of the former make the broth very good) and break the  bones.  Clean it carefully. Put it into a saucepan with two quarts of  water,  a very small  onion,  a little  salt,  and two tablespoonfuls of  rice.  When it boils skim and cover closely, and let it simmer slowly for six hours, if a  fowl;  if a  chicken,  for five hours. --MRS. JEFFERSON COOLIDGE.   
  
 BEEF TEA 
Three pounds of lean  beef.  Cut out all the  fat  and gristle, put it in a covered saucepan, with one  clove,  and a   lump of  ice,  the size of your fist, in the centre of the beef, and the remainder of the beef laid over it. Let it stand back on the range and simmer until all the juice is extracted, then let it have one boil up. Only season as much as you intend using at once. The remainder can be kept on ice and seasoned as required with  salt,   pepper,   celery salt,  or to suit the taste of the patient.  
  
 JUMBALLAYA A LA CREOLE 
Add to a cupful of  rice,  which has boiled five minutes, a rich brown  chicken fricassee,  put it in a saucepan, not closely covered, let it dry slowly, turn with a fork. The Carolinians make different perlous prepared in the same way by adding cooked  tomatoes  and  butter.   Green peas  with a little  butter  is delicious.  Okra  and  tomatoes  fried together and added to  rice.   Oysters  a little fried in  butter.  Hopping John is made in the same way with small pieces of fried  ham,  fried  sausages,  to which you add some  cow peas  that have been partially boiled. Season highly. The St. Domingo Congris is like the Hopping John.  
  
 PLAIN BOILED RICE 
Take a cup of the best South Carolina  rice  (whole). Wash it three times in  cold water  until the  water  is clear. The fourth time wash it in hot  water,  put it in a saucepan with enough hot  water  to cover it,  salt  it, and cover closely. Let it boil from five to ten minutes. Test it with your fingers. If cooked, pour off the  water,  add to it a quarter cupful of  cold water,  cover closely, and set awhile on the stove to soak. If you fear its clinging to the saucepan stir it with a fork, not a spoon. Your  rice  will soak and dry beautifully.  
 
  
 CHINESE RICE 
Take equal parts of  rice  and  cold water.  Wash your  rice  in several waters, put it in a saucepan,  salt,  and let it boil. When cooked put aside to soak until dry. Be careful, it burns easily. Every grain of  rice  will be separate and dry.   "Mon Repos," Aiken, S.C.  --MISS EUSTIS.   
  
 HOPPING JOHN 
Cup of  cow peas,  boil with piece of  bacon.  When  peas  are thoroughly done, not till mushy, drain water off, three hours boiling. Boil separately a well washed cupful and a half of  rice.  Mix together after it is done. Skim off grease from top of pot  peas  are boiled in, add  salt  and  cayenne pepper,  put in oven to dry out. Serve with sliced  bacon  in centre or  fried sausages.  --MRS. EUGENIA PHILLIPS,  Washington, D.C.    
  
 JUMBALLAYA A SPANISH CREOLE DISH 
Wash one pound of  rice  and soak it an hour. Cut up a cold roast  chicken,  or the remnants of a  turkey,  and a slice of  ham,  and fry them in a tablespoonful of  lard.  Stir in the  rice,  and add slowly while stirring in, a pint of  hot water.  Cover your pot, and set where it can cook slowly, until the  rice  is nearly dry. One or two spoonfuls of  cooked tomatoes  give it a very good taste. Jumballaya is very nice made with  oysters,   shrimps  or  sausages.  --MME. EUSTIS, MERE.   
  
 DELICIOUS BREAKFAST DISH 
Take some  hog meat  prepared for  sausages.  Chop up some well boiled  pig's feet,  mix with it, and wrap up in a  lace.  Fry it, and serve hot. --MME. ALZIRE DUBROCA,  Baton Rouge.    
 
  
 JUMBALLAYA 
Take a good sized  chicken.  Cut it as for fried  chicken,  season it with  salt  and  pepper,  and fry in a spoonful of  lard.  Cut up half a pound of  ham  in pieces an inch long, and fry in the same pan. When that is fried, take out and in the same  lard  fry a spoonful of  onions  cut very fine. Slice up three large  tomatoes,  or two spoonfuls of canned  tomatoes,  and fry them in the same pan. Cut up a little  parsley  and add when everything is fried. Put back your  ham  and  chicken  and add two and a half cupfuls of  water.  Let it come to a boil, and then add a cupful of well washed  rice.  Put it again on a quick fire. When the rice is cooked, and the steam begins to rise, put it on a slow fire and add a teaspoonful of  butter.  If you fear it may burn at the bottom of the pot, use a fork, not a spoon, as the latter makes the  rice  soggy. Let it soak or dry thoroughly. If it does not dry fast enough, put for a moment in the oven. --LYDIA EUSTIS.   
  
 RIZ A LA VALENCIENNE 
Make a nice brown fricassee, with a good sized  fowl  highly flavored; let it simmer for two hours. Make about a pint of  tomato sauce,  adding to it red and  green peppers.  It must have cooked two hours. Mix it with the chicken fricassee, let it simmer together. Take a cup of best  Carolina rice,  prepare it as for boiling in  hot water  for five minutes. Use a  tureen  or dish that will go to the fire, put in it your  chicken,  then the  rice  on top, add two or three spoonfuls of the best  olive oil,  put it in a moderately hot oven, watching it closely; if it gets dry baste it with a few spoonfuls of  broth  on top but do not stir it.  Artichokes  may be added to it. Serve at table in the  tureen.  Warmed over the next day is even better.  
 
  
 HOPPING JOHN 
Take a cupful of  cow peas  (small black peas) that have been soaked over night, one  onion,   parsley  and a  laurel leaf.  Let them boil in a quart and a pint of  water  for an hour, or until soft. Add two cupfuls well washed raw  rice.  The rice must cook about fifteen or twenty minutes. Then add a quarter of a pound of  well-fried sausages,  a slice of  ham  and a small piece of  bacon,  both cut in small pieces and fried. Put your saucepan aside to soak, or dry. Cover closely. Be careful it does not burn at the bottom. If the  rice  has to be stirred use a fork, as it turns easily, and still can not be stirred too much, or it becomes soggy. Those old-fashioned black pots are the best to use. --"UNCLE JOHN," S.C.   
  
 DAUBE GLACEE OR B&#x0152;UF A LA DAUBE 
Take a  round of beef,  clean and dry it carefully with a towel, rub it in with  salt,   pepper  and  cloves,  laid with smoked  tongue  or  beef suet  or  forcemeat  and a little  garlic.  Put it in a cool place and let it remain for three or four days in winter. The night before it is to be cooked, squeeze the  juice of a lemon  over the  beef,  on the sides. After breakfast put the  beef  in a  Dutch oven  with some drippings--let it boil hot before you put the  beef  in. Brown well on both sides, then draw the oven from the fire and let it simmer for three hours, then pare and halve six large  onions,  stew them over the  beef --let it continue to simmer for three hours longer, add  forcemeat balls,  or a  calf's foot --serve it with  gravy  in the dish and  sauce boat.  --MRS. EUGENIA PHILLIPS,  Washington, D.C.    
  
 MACARONI 
 Macaroni  must be thrown into plenty of  boiling water  to cook it well. Then drain it off and put it in a dish with   butter,   salt  and a little  powdered mustard  and put it in the oven until there is a nice crust on top.  Grated cheese  of any kind may be added, or a few tablespoonfuls of well cooked  tomatoes,  or a few tablespoonfuls of  Italian mushrooms  stirred up with  chicken livers,  or the remnants of p&#226;te d&#233; foie gras, or chopped  ham  or  salt tongue,  in fact almost anything that will give it a nice relish.  
  
 DAUBE GLAC&#233;E 
Take five or six pounds of the  round of beef,  two inches thick. Two days before cooking it,  lard  it with strips of  lard  half an inch thick and three inches long. Tie it in a round with a string, not too tight. Season with  salt,  and  black and red pepper,  and put in a good pinch of  saltpetre.  Let your larding be almost an inch and a half apart. Rub up your daube with an  onion  and whatever falls from the  seasoning.  Put it away in a china  tureen  in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Early the next day take one of these thick, black saucepans and put in the bottom of it a piece of  pig skin  the size of the saucepan. Put in a bouquet of  thyme,   parsley,  two  laurel leaves,  one  onion,  and a small piece of  garlic.  Take three  calf's feet  that have been cut in halves by the butcher, lay them on top of the bouquet, and add half a cupful of  meat juice.  Let it simmer on a slow fire for half an hour, then add enough  water  to allow the calf's feet to simmer very slowly for five or six hours, until the  bones  detach themselves from the  meat,  the  gravy  to be tested with the fingers until it has a gelatinous consistency. The pot must be closely covered, and a weight put on the cover so that it touches the meat. The calf's feet must be boiled before they are put in the daube, and that gelatinous water used when your daube is cooked. Put it in a clean  tureen  to take a round form.   Take out the calf's feet, skim the grease off the sauce and pass it warm through a flannel bag. Put in two  egg shells  before straining it, and let it cook a while to clear the jelly. Cut two well cooked  carrots  in halves. Put them in the bottom of your  tureen  and place your daube on top. Pour your  jelly  on the sides of the daube, so that it runs on the bottom of the  tureen  and on the sides, remembering that when you turn it out in a dish the bottom part will be on top. Put in a cool place, or near the ice. You will have to try several times before you succeed in making this very choice and delicious dish, which is meant for cold weather only. --MME. EUSTIS, MERE.   
  
 ROAST BEEF 
Take a roast of  beef,  as many pounds as you need according to the number of persons. Wipe well with a clean cloth,  salt  and  pepper  it, and  flour  it. Before you put it in a roast pan, put in that pan a small piece of  bacon,  a small piece of  onion,  and a  carrot  cut in two, with two tablespoonfuls of  meat juice  or  bouillon,  not hot water. Water is very good to wash with, but not to flavor meats with! Put your meat in the roast pan in a moderate oven, and cook it by a good fire a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat. Baste it with the drippings, and watch it carefully.  
  
 YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO SERVE WITH HOT ROAST BEEF 
One and a half pints of  milk,  six large tablespoonfuls of  flour,  three  eggs,  one small spoonful of  salt.  Put the flour into a basin with the  salt,  and stir into it gradually enough  milk  to make a stiff batter. When perfectly smooth, add   the rest of the milk, and the eggs well beaten. Beat the mixture for a few moments and pour it into a shallow tin, which has previously been well rubbed with beef drippings. Put the pudding into the oven and bake for one hour, then for half an hour place it under the beef, to catch a little of the gravy. Cut the pudding into small square pieces. Put them on a hot dish and serve. If the meat is baked, the pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the meat on a small three-cornered stand. --KATIE SEABROOK,  Pres. McKinley's Cook.    
  
 FILET MARINE 
When you have a good roast  beef,  after using the  sirloin  for your dinnr, cut out the filet and put it on a dish.  Salt  and  pepper  it, rub a little  onion  over it, pour a tablespoonful of  tarragon vinegar  and two spoonfuls of best  sweet oil  over it. From time to time baste it with the drippings. Warm it up for another meal, basting it while it is cooking over a slow fire. Serve with  fried potatoes.    When you have a remnant of p&#226;t&#233; de foie gras, use it with boiled  macaroni.  It can be put back in the paste and warmed over in the oven.  
  
 TO BROIL A STEAK 
Have your  gridiron  hot. Wipe the  steak  clean. Put it in a dish with melted  butter,  and then put on the hot  gridiron  and broil ten minutes. Turn it twice, and season with  salt,   pepper  and  butter.  --"UNCLE JOHN," S.C.   
  
 BRISKET OF BEEF 
Take one pound bag  salt,  two of  saltpetre,  a little  sugar,  and a few  cloves.  Rub this mixture well into the  beef    every day for a week. Then it is fit for use. According to the size of the piece of beef, the mixture must be proportionally stronger.  
  
 LEG OF MUTTON 
 Mutton  should be kept and hung several days, rub it all over with an  onion,  or a small piece of  garlic,  baste from time to time, with  tarragon vinegar  and  black pepper.  Make a mop with a nice clean rag and mop it all over several times. Roast it and serve hot, do not let it stand.  
  
 TO BOIL A WESTPHALIA HAM 
Let the  ham  soak over night. Boil it three hours in the same  water,  and let it cool off in the same. Skin it, put a layer of  brown sugar  on it moistened with  sherry wine;  let it brown, put in the oven a few moments. A  Smithfield ham  may be prepared the same way.  
  
 A TODD HAM 
Soak forty-eight hours, changing  water  once or twice. Then put in  cold water  and let it come to a simmer (don't boil), and simmer slowly for four hours. Then skin and dress with  sugar  and  cracker crumbs,  and bake half an hour until well browned.  --MRS. BEALE   
  
 HAM FRIED WITH SUGAR 
Take a few slices of  boiled ham.  Sprinkle some  brown sugar  and a little  dry mustard  over it. Fry in  butter  until it browns. Serve hot, to be eaten with salad.  
 
  
 KIDNEY STEW 
Take a medium sized  beef kidney,  put on the fire in  cold water  with an  onion, let it simmer, not boil, until tender. Cut in thin slices as large as a ten-cent piece. Put a piece of  butter  in frying-pan, shake some  flour,  let it brown, then add some of the liquor it was cooked in. Serve on toast.  Veal kidney  does not require so long cooking; prepare same way.  
  
 TO STEW LAMB AND PEAS 
Put the  lamb  into a  stewpan  with about a quart of  water,  when half done add the  peas  with  pepper  and  salt  to taste. Let them stew slowly and have ready some  mint  and  parsley  chopped fine, put it in and let all simmer slowly until ready to serve.  
  
 MRS. KELLY'S DELICIOUS MUTTON STEW 
Cut in large slices some  cold mutton.  Take the  gravy  left from the day before and warm it. Take a separate saucepan, put in it a spoonful of  butter,  a little  onion,  cut fine, sprinkle a little  corn farina,  stirring all the time, until warm, then add the  gravy.  Put all in a double saucepan. Then put in the  cold mutton  and leave until it gets nice and hot. --WHITCHURCH.   
  
 DELICIOUS STEW 
Cut some  cold meat  into small pieces. Brown golden, add small piece of  butter,  with a suspicion of  onion,  add a sprinkling of  flour,  and a little chopped  parsley,  half a cupful of stock or  mutton broth.  Let it simmer slowly for half an hour, adding your  meat.  Set it way back on your stove to get the heat. Keep it tightly covered until called for. --KATIE SEABROOK,  Pres. McKinley's Colored Cook.    
 
  
 TOMATO CURRY 
A  tomato curry  is an excellent accompaniment to  baked veal.  Mix a tablespoonful of  curry powder  with a quart of  cooked and seasoned tomatoes;  put this in a dish, with alternate layers of  uncooked rice,  using a cupful of the latter in all; let the top layer be of  bread crumbs;  dot with  butter,  and bake an hour or until the rice is done.  
  
 VEAL CROQUETTES 
Mince your  veal  fine. Mix one half cupful  milk  with one teaspoonful of  flour,  a piece of  butter  the size of an egg, cook until it thickens. Stir into it the meat. Roll into balls. Dip in  egg  with a little  milk  stirred in. Roll in browned  bread crumbs.  Fry in  hot lard.   
  
 NICE COLD DISH FOR LUNCH, TO BE EATEN WITH SALAD 
Boil a good sized  chicken  with  onion,   salt  and  parsley,  (cover closely) for two hours. Add a  knuckle of veal.  Put enough  water  to cover your meat, and let it simmer an hour more. Take out your chicken when you put in your  veal,  and cut it up in half inch squares. When your stock is ready, season well with  salt  and  pepper.  Put your  chicken  in a mold with three  hard boiled eggs,  cut in halves, small pieces of  ham  or  tongue,   chicken livers,  etc. Arrange it as directed in the mold. Pour the stock over it, and place to cool in the ice box, remembering that when you turn the mold out to serve, the bottom will be on top. This dish can be made very attractive by coloring the  jelly  with  tomato juice.  --MME. EUSTIS, MERE.   
   BELLE DINDI DE JAMBE DE BOIS  Cha-cun son gout moi j'ai fais choix d'une belle - dindi, de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois.  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS  An illustration of a man dressed in cover-alls showing off his turkey with wooden legs.      
  
 POTTED VEAL 
The  livers  to be well larded. Put in  stewpan  with  lard,   onion,   carrots,   pepper,   salt,  a few  aromatic herbs,  a glass of  white wine,  let them simmer for three hours. Add a  calf's foot,  cut in half, and well boiled for several hours. Take out the bones of the calf's foot, put in a bowl to get cold. Will form a nice jelly to be eaten with salad.  
  
 TERRAPIN STEW 
Boil your  terrapin  soft. Put in a small piece of  bacon,  one or two  onions,   pepper  and  butter.  Chop fine two or three  hard boiled eggs.  Put all together. Add a little  wine.  --"UNCLE JOHN."   
  
 TERRAPIN 
Put them in tub of  cold water  for about one hour, after which throw them into boiling  water  and boil until dead. Then take out and with a rough cloth wipe thoroughly all in and around shell and legs and  feet,  to get off any black skin or dirt. Then throw again into boiling  water  and cook until the shell comes off easily, and the claws pull off in the same way. Each  terrapin  has to be tried separately to see if the legs are soft and pliant and the shell and claws come off easily (age tells), and no amount of cooking in a  chafing dish  later will make tender if not cooked enough before being picked. Hold your terrapin over a dish so that any of the water that runs from it can be saved, and then take off the lower shell and take out the liver which has the gall bladder in, and, holding that over another dish, cut out the gall bladder as you may break it, and if you do, don't want to spoil your terrapin. Pick your   terrapin, leaving the small bones in it, and when picked, to a pint of the  meat  and liquor add half pound best  butter,  saltspoonful of  dry mustard,  wineglass of good  sherry  or  madeira,  and  salt  to taste. Heat when ready to serve, but do not cook, and be sure and have hot plates. If you like it you can add about a cup of  cream,  but we do not do it at the club. --JAMES H. BARNEY,  President Maryland Club, 1870.    
  
 VEAL TERRAPIN 
One pound lean  veal,  quarter pound  veal liver,  teaspoonful  onion juice  and four  cloves.  Cover with  water  and boil until tender. When cold cut  meat  and  liver  into small pieces. Thicken the  water  they were boiled in with a tablespoonful of  butter  rolled in about the same quantity of  browned flour  (or a little less of the latter). Pour this gravy over the  meat  and add two  hard boiled eggs,  cut fine, and a wineglassful of  sherry  with  red pepper,  and  salt  to taste. Heat and serve in  chafing dish.   
  
 BALTIMORE STYLE OF MAKING TERRAPIN STEW WITHOUT TERRAPIN 
Cut up a  rabbit  in pieces one inch square, and do the same thing with a  calf's head  which has been thoroughly cleaned and prepared. Add to it whatever you may have left over of  chicken livers,   gizzards,  and small pieces of fried  bacon  or  ham.  Flavor with  salt,   pepper  and a  laurel leaf.  Let it simmer for two hours a day for two days, (four hours in all). Skim off all grease and add to it two or three  hard boiled eggs,  cut fine, and a wineglassful of  white wine.   --MARSHALL THOMAS,  Deer Park, Md., July, 1889.    
 
  
 DELICIOUS FISH BALLS 
Take a quart of hot  potatoes,  freshly boiled, a cup of warmed  fish  picked very fine, one  egg,  the white and yellow beaten lightly separately, a teaspoonful of nice  butter,  a tablespoonful of fresh  cream,  add  salt,   red pepper,  a little  onion juice,  and  parsley  chopped fine. Beat the whole to a light cream. Roll in balls and drop into plenty of very hot  lard,  like doughnuts, stirring them all the time.  
  
 CODFISH BALLS 
One cupful raw  salt fish,  one pint  potatoes,  one  egg  well beaten, quarter saltspoonful  pepper,  and more  salt  if needed, one teaspoonful of  butter.  Wash the fish, pick in half inch pieces, and free from bones. Pare potatoes and cut in quarters. Put fish and potatoes in  stewpan,  cover with  boiling water.  Boil twenty-five minutes, or until potatoes are soft. Do not allow potatoes to get soggy. Drain off all water, mash and beat until very light. Add  butter  and  salt,  and when slightly cooled the eggs, and more  salt  if needed. Shape them without smoothing much. Slip off into frying hot  lard  one minute. Fry only five at a time.  
  
 CODFISH CAKES 
Take six good sized  potatoes,  pare and boil; one pound  codfish,  put it over in  cold water,  do not let it boil. Mash fish and potatoes together. When hot season with  salt  and  pepper  to taste. Add a piece of  butter,  two  eggs  beat light with a fork, fry in boiling  lard  five minutes, put on sheets of  brown paper.  Serve hot with some crisp fried  bacon.   
 
  
 CODFISH A L'ESPAGNOLE 
Take a  salt codfish,  let it soak, simmer it on a slow fire, let it drip, and cut it in pieces. Put in the oven three or four large sweet  peppers,  skin them, slice them lengthwise,  salt  and  pepper  them.  Put two spoonfuls of  sweet oil  in a frying-pan. Chop up fine two  onions,  a piece of  garlic,  some  parsley,  cut up four fresh  tomatoes,   salt  and  pepper.  Let it all cook for half an hour, add a half cupful of  bouillon  in which you dissolve a teaspoonful of  flour,  let it cook ten minutes, take out your  parsley.   Boil a dozen  Irish potatoes  in their jackets, peel and  slice  them, line the bottom of a dish with them, then put some pieces of  codfish,  then some slices of  sweet pepper,  then  tomato sauce,  and a sprinkling of  bread  crumbs. Put in the oven thirty-five minutes.--Canned  tomatoes  and  peppers  can be used instead of fresh.  
  
 POTOMAC HERRINGS WITH ROE 
When very fresh simply broil them over a slow fire. Baste them with  butter,  for quarter of an hour. If a few months old and a little dry, soak them before cooking three or four hours. The  roe  mixed at table with boiled  hominy  is most delicious for breakfast.  
  
 DEVILLED CRABS 
Twelve  crabs,  half pint of  milk,  two tablespoonfuls of  flour,  one tablespoonful of  butter,   salt  and  cayenne pepper  to taste, one tablespoonful of chopped  parsley.  Put the  milk  on to boil, rub the  butter  and  flour  together, add the  milk,  stir and cook two minutes. Take from the fire and add the  crab meat.  The  yolks  of three hard boiled  eggs  mashed   fine, then  parsley,   salt  and  pepper.  Fill the shells, brush over with the  white of an egg,  cover with  bread crumbs  and put in a quick oven, or cook in a  frying basket.   
  
 DEVILLED CRABS--NEW ORLEANS STYLE 
Scald your  crabs  only in  boiling water.  Pick and clean them carefully. Take out the firm white flesh, and throw out the yellow. Moisten the flesh with a little  sweet cream.  Taste to see that it is not bitter. Put with it stale  breadcrumbs,   salt  and  pepper  it, and put this back into the shells; sprinkle with  bread crumbs,  and put in the oven to brown. Serve hot. --MME. JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 SAUCE A LA NEWBURG, FOR LOBSTER 
Take a quarter of a pound of  melted butter,  and a  whiskey  glass of  sherry wine,  two  yolks of eggs,  a little  salt  and  pepper  to taste, a little  lemon juice  and half cupful of  sweet cream,  mixed well with half teaspoonful of  corn starch.  Stir all together well on the fire without allowing it to burn or turn.   --Compliments of MARSHALL THOMAS.   
  
 COURTBOUILLON OF FISH 
Make a good brown with a spoonful of  lard  and a little  flour.  Add a piece of  garlic  and half an  onion,  cut fine--let them brown well. Add two tablespoonfuls of well cooked  tomatoes,   salt,   black coarse pepper,   red pepper,  two  laurel leaves,  and a coffeespoonful of  saffron.  Add enough  bouillon  to cover your fish, and to make a good  sauce.  Add half a cupful of good  white wine.  Take two pounds of very fresh, fine  fish,  take out the  bones,  and cut it up in pieces from two to three inches long and wide,  salt  well, and fry it in a little  lard.  Add the  fried fish  to   your sauce and let the whole simmer together for half an hour. Do not turn your fish, so you may not break the pieces. Cover your pot half way, as you do for a soup, and serve hot. --JOSEPHINE NICAUD,  New Orleans.    
  
 "MONICA'S" WAY TO COOK FISH 
There are  stock fish  sometimes called tautog, Monica cooks them thus: Put the  fish  into a pan with a little  butter.  Let them fry until pretty nearly cooked, then put in a little  wine,   pepper  and  salt,  and let them stew. Use no  water  A little more  wine,   pepper  and  salt  to make a good  gravy --so says "Monica."  
  
 POTATO BALLS 
Pare and boil dry some  potatoes.  Then put them into a hot pan and mash with a lump of  butter,   salt  and  pepper.  Beat this well, and make into small flat cakes. Dip them into  egg  and sprinkle with  bread crumbs.  Fry a nice brown.  
  
 PARTRIDGE A LA "UNCLE JOHN" 
Take six or eight  partridges,  or small  quails,  brown them in a small pan with  lard  and a light sprinkling of  flour.  Add three tablespoonfuls of  raw tomatoes,  half a cupful of  meat juice,   onion,   salt  and  pepper.  Let them simmer an hour, covered. Baste them from time to time with the  gravy.  Serve with hot  rice.  "UNCLE JOHN,"  Chef for Mr. Le Garee, of South Carolina.    
  
 STUFFINGS FOR TURKEYS AND DUCKS 
 Wild turkeys  should be stuffed with  corn bread,   pecan nuts  and  truffles.  Take a piece of corn bread left over   from breakfast, moisten with a teaspoonful of  sauce.  Add about a dozen  peeled pecan nuts,  three or four cut truffles, mix well. Cook in saucepan. Stuff your  turkey  the day before. Always let your  fowls  hang by the legs. A wild turkey should cook an hour, perhaps a little more or less. Be careful it does not dry, as the flesh is rather dry. Carve it as you would a wild duck, in thick slices. Put a  buttered paper  on the breast of the wild turkey, to prevent its drying. Tame turkeys can be cooked and stuffed in the same way.  Sausages  well fried, with  mashed potatoes,   salt,  and  red pepper,  make deliciou stuffing for fowls.  
  
 TURKEY STUFFING 
Equal parts of  stale baker's bread  and nice  corn bread  left over from breakfast, a  hard boiled egg.  Chop up a few  raw oysters,  mix well together with  butter,   salt,   pepper, red and white.  Put in the oven to bake. Add to it a remnant of p&#226;t&#233; de foie gras and stuff the  turkey.  Turkey should not cook more than an hour or an hour and a quarter. Do not let it dry, the juice should run from it when it is carved, baste it with  soup  or  stock.   
  
 STUFFING FOR FOWLS 
 Oysters,   stale bread,   onions,   parsley,   salt  and  pepper  put in the fyring-pan with a little  butter  make delicious stuffing.  Truffles  with stale bread and butter, warmed up together in a frying-pan, and flavored with salt, pepper, etc.   Spanish chestnuts  and bits of  ham  are delicious stuffing.  Stuff your  fowls  the day before, and hang them up by the legs four hours before cooking.  Chop fine a pound of young  calf.  Season with  salt,   pepper,  and  onion juice.  Let it fry in a saucepan with a   little  butter  and a sprinkling of  flour.  Add enough  oyster water  to soften it, and half a pint of  oysters.  Let all fry together to the consistency of a paste. This may be used for small p&#226;t&#233;s also, and  pigeons  may be stuffed in the same way, and allowed to simmer in a saucepan, with a little  gravy,  closely covered.  
  
 CHICKEN CASSEROLE 
Take a medium sized  chicken,  singe and draw and prepare it, put in casserole whole, add a good lump of  butter,   onion,   salt  and  pepper.  Steam gently on top of range two hours, then add  mushrooms  and vegetables to taste; brown and serve hot. --LIZZIE TOMNEY.   
  
 CANVASBACK DUCK 
Lose as little of the juice or blood as possible. Split it down the back. After singeing it very carefully, lay it on a  gridiron  with the split side toward the fire, which must be very hot. Keep flat on the  gridiron  by pressing the other half, but do not bruise the flesh by pressing too much. Allow the  duck  to remain over the fire twelve or fifteen minutes, then take off, and expose the breasts to the heat just long enough to brown the skin nicely. It is then cooked, and must immediately be served. A salad of  celery   mayonnaise  is the proper thing to eat with it. --MRS. WILCOX,  Aiken, S.C.    
  
 HOW TO ROAST DUCKS 
Don't wash your  ducks,  but wipe them thoroughly with a clean cloth, inside and outside. Rub the back (inside and outside) with a small piece of  onion.   Salt  and  pepper  them the same way. Tie them up tightly so the juice does not escape. Rub the breast of each duck with a spoonful of   olive oil.  Lay in your  dripping-pan  a slice or two of  bacon,  one  carrot,  one  leek,  two  bay leaves,  a piece of  celery.  Place the ducks on this, and let them cook in a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. Put in any  dressing  you would make for a roast chicken. With all your roast meats put in the bottom of your roast-pan a  carrot  cut in half, a piece of  onion,   celery  and  parsley.  The same with boiled meats or fish, to give a foundation taste to your food. --KATIE SEABROOK,  President McKinley's Colored Cook.    
  
 HOW TO SERVE CHICKEN 
Wash your  chicken,  dry with a nice clean cloth, put it in a tray of  salt  and  water  to cover ten minutes, dry it and  salt  and  pepper  and  flour  it well, throw it in a pan of  hot lard,  hot enough to make it a golden brown, when done lay it on a piece of very clean paper to absorb the grease. Throw off the top grease, put a handful of  flour,  stir to a brown, add to it a pint of  stock,  stir and strain, then put your  chicken  in and let it simmer slowly until the chicken gets soft; make a nice pot of mush, let it get cold, cut it and fry and serve with the chicken. Fry  Jerusalem artichokes  and let them simmer with the  fricassee;  this is also delicious. --ELLEN WHITE,  Mrs. Madison's Cook.    
  
 FOR BROILING CHICKEN 
To prepare  chickens  to roast and broil, when once you have washed your chickens, wipe them carefully with a dry cloth.  Salt  and  pepper  them two or three hours before cooking, put them in the refrigerator. Put a little  sweet oil  over them before broiling them on a slow fire; while cooking baste them with a little  water.  For roasting chickens do the same as for broiling. Stuff them, put three or four   large spoonfuls of  butter  inside the chicken. Bake one hour, slow fire.  
  
 NEW ORLEANS WAY TO COOK SNIPE 
Take some  jelly  made of  calf's feet  and  madeira wine.  A small piece of  salt pork  and a piece of  liver.  Chop the meat up fine, with  seasoning of salt,   red and black pepper.  Put a few  soda crackers  in the oven and toast and pulverize them. Mix them with your chopped meat. Add chopped  truffles  and  mushrooms,  and just enough  meat juice  to soften it. Cut your snipe in two. Put them in a china  tureen  and fill in the empty places with this hash. Put it on a very slow fire for several hours, basting it with the jelly. --MRS. CUTHBERT SLOCUM.   
  
 CHICKEN PIE 
Make a rich brown  chickenfricassee.  Tie a bouquet of  aromatic herbs  with a thread and let it stand in the fricassee five minutes, then take it out. Cut up two  hard boiled eggs  and put them in the fricassee. Cook thoroughly over a slow fire. Have your pie crust ready, and put the fricassee in it, not forgetting to prick the top crust with an iron fork in several places to allow evaporation. Otherwise it will ferment and the result will prove disastrous. --AUNT RACHEL COFFIN.   
  
 CHICKEN CROQUETTES 
Pair of  fowls  weighing six pounds. Choose those with most breasts. Boil in sufficient  water  to cover them, with two  onions,  two  carrots,  small bunch of  thyme  and  parsley,  a few  cloves  and half a grated  nutmeg.  After they have become cold and very tender, divest them of skin, fat    CHANSON DE M&#233;RANCE Que fais-tu dans ce monde que tu n't&#233;ais pas au pr&#232;s des pr&#234;tres ras t'en mau-dite en-fant vas t'en dans les en-fers vas t'en dans les en-fers.  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        NURSE M&#233;RANCE OF THE DESTREHIAN PLANTATION, JUST ABOVE NEW ORLEANS  An illustration of a woman working at a table with a wooden spoon       gristle and tendons, and chop the meat as fine as possible. A half pound of best  butter  to each  chicken  should be put into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of  flour,  and cook together, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Add a gill or so of the  stock  in which the chickens are boiled, and a  tumbler  of rich  cream.  Boil eight or ten minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the fire and season with  salt,   pepper  and  grated nutmeg.  Mix well. Stir in  milk  rapidly, add the  yolks of four eggs.  Put all on the fire and stew the mixture for a moment, stirring briskly, after which pour the mass out in a flat dish, and let it remain until perfectly cool. Then make it up into pear shaped  rolls  with the assistance of a little  flour  to prevent the mixture from sticking to the fingers. When all are ready, dip each one separately into the yolk of eggsbeaten with a little cream, and roll them as fast as dipped into fresh  bread crumbs  made from day  old bread.  Let them stand for an hour or so to dry. Now fry them a delicate brown in plenty of clear frying  hot lard.  Lay them in a  colander  to drain. Serve on a napkin in a warm dish.  
  
 NEW ORLEANS VEAL WITH OYSTERS 
Make a brown with a spoonful of nice fresh  butter,  or  lard.  Chop a pound of nice, tender young  veal.  Flavor with  salt  and  pepper.  Put it in the frying-pan. Add a little  flour.  Let it come to a good color. Add a cupful of  oyster water,  and some well chopped  parsley.  Let it cook for half an hour over a slow fire. Add your  oysters  and let them cook five minutes. Never allow your  parsley  to fry. This makes a delicious  stuffing  for  chickens  and  ducks  by adding a little  stale bread.  It may be used also for small p&#226;t&#233;s, or simply serve on pieces of toast.  --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
 
  
 BLANQUETTE OF VEAL 
Cut some very tender pieces of  veal  into square pieces. Let them brown in a saucepan with  lard  until they are a golden color. Add just enough  cold water  to cover them, with  salt,   pepper,   onion,  one  carrot,   parsley  and  laurel leaf,  and let them simmer on a slow fire for two hours. Put in a fresh saucepan a tablespoonful of fresh  butter  and two of  flour.  Stir it well over the fire until it takes a good color. Moisten with a little  meat juice  and let it simmer. Dissolve in a cup the  yolk of an egg  with a little  lemon juice,  or a small spoonful of  vinegar,  and a large spoonful of  cream.  Stir it a bit and then add to your simmering sauce. Simply mix, and do not let them boil. Pour it over your meat which has been simmering in its juice. You can add  mushrooms  or  chopped truffles  to this dish for a dinner party. --LEONIE PENIN.   
  
 SAUCE BEARNAISE 
To make this admirable sauce--a souvenir of the mountain home of Henri de Navarre--put in a saucepan two tablespoonfuls of  chopped shallots  (small green onions), and four of  white wine vinegar.  Reduce to one half. Add six  yolks of eggs,  two tablespoonfuls of  beef  extract and stir on the fire with a wooden spoon, until it thickens. Put a little to the side, and add, a bit at a time, a half pound of good table  butter,  dropping a little  water  in when the  sauce  becomes too thick. Press through a napkin. Finish with finely chopped  tarragon,  chervil,  parsley,  and a pinch of  red pepper.   
  
 DUTCH SAUCE 
 Yolks of two eggs,  quarter pint of  cream,  two and a quarter spoonfuls of  elder vinegar,  a little fresh  butter,   flour  enough to render the same the consistency of custard.  
 
  
 SAUCE BORDELAISE 
Put a tablespoonful of finely chopped  shallots  (small green onions), two tablespoonfuls of  bruised cloves,  and two pieces of  garlic  into a saucepan with a little  butter.  Fry a little. Add two glasses of  claret wine,  a pint of  Spanish sauce,  and a pinch of  red pepper.  Reduce to the consistency of a sauce. Finish off with  lemon juice,   chopped parsley  and four ounces of  beef marrow  cut in rounds, and hardly heated in salted  boiling water.  Use immediately. --DELMONICO.   
  
 SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK 
One tablespoonful of  sugar,  one tablespoonful of  tomato catsup,   lemon juice,   salt,   cayenne pepper.   
  
 LOBSTER SAUCE 
One pound of  lobster,  three tablespoonfuls of  cream,  one of  butter,   salt,   cayenne pepper.  Beat the coral of the lobster with the cream and butter.  
  
 CALF'S LIVER A LA CELESTE SMITH 
Cut a few slices of very tender  veal  into pieces three inches long and half an inch thick. Fry them in  lard  with a little  onion  chopped very fine. Add half a cupful of  bouillon  or  sauce.  Let them simmer half or three quarters of an hour. Add  parsley  well chopped. Boil a handful of best  Italian macaroni.  Put it in the bottom of a long dish. Pour your livers and sauce on top. Trim with slices of  lemon.  Old C&#233;leste would say "it was a very vulgar dish, but a delicious one." --CELESTE SMITH,  Mme. Eustis Mere's Cook.    
 
  
 NEW ORLEANS VEAL BALLS 
Chop fine a pound of young  veal.  Season with  salt,   pepper,   thyme  and  onion juice.  Roll this in balls. Let them brown in a saucepan with  butter  an hour before you have prepared the sauce. --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 SAUCE FOR VEAL BALLS 
Make a brown with a nice piece of tender  young veal,  say one pound. Cut in pieces about half an inch thick, to which you add small pieces of fresh  ham,  well browned, a few slices of  tomatoes  well fried, and a little  onion.  Add to this half a cupful of  soup  or  stock . Let it simmer slowly for half an hour. Then add your  veal balls,  freshly fried. Let them all simmer together until ready to serve. To be eaten with very hot  rice.   Sweetbreads  can be put in this same sauce. When they have been thoroughly prepared, cook them, and baste in this sauce over a slow fire, and they come out a golden color. They are delicious when so cooked. Cold, eaten with  lettuce salad,  with  French dressing.   --JOSEPHINE NICAUD.   
  
 SPICED BEEF 
Take  round of beef  and put in a porcelain pot. Over this pour one can of  tomatoes,  and put one bunch of  carrots,  and one  onion,  sliced fine. Put this on the back of the stove at three o'clock for an eight o'clock dinner, and let it cooked slowly all the time. A short time before dinner add a heaping tablespoonful of  cloves  and one of  allspice,  ground. Then take a cup of  flour  and brown it and make into  gravy  and add this to the rest.  
 
  
 STEWED TONGUE FOR LUNCH 
Boil a  fresh tongue  until it is tender and dress it ready for the table. Take a little more than a pint of the  water  it was boiled in and add to it half a pint of  port wine,  a small  tumbler  of  currant jelly,  a small pinch of  mace,  and  salt  to taste. Stew the tongue in this gravy for an hour, and serve in the gravy.  
  
 CUCUMBER CATSUP 
Take three dozen full grown  cucumbers,  pare and slice thin. Mix through them one pint of  salt.  Spread to drain for six or eight hours, and then squeeze perfectly dry. Put in a large bowl and add quarter pound  brown sugar,  half pint  olive oil,  half pound  mustard seed,  quarter pound  ground black pepper,  two quarts boiling  vinegar.  Mix well together. Then put in small jars and cover, if necessary, with  cold vinegar  and on top of each jar pour a little  olive oil.  Put in jars with tight tops.  
 VEGETABLES 
  
 SWEET POTATOES 
Take six  sweet potatoes,  not too large, scrape them on a scraper. Add two spoonfuls of  water,   salt,   pepper,   sugar  to taste, and a spoonful of  butter.  Mix all together to the consistency of a good paste. Put in a dish that goes to the fire, and place in the oven. Before doing so, take a straw and stick it on top to allow evaporation.  
 
  
 SWEET POTATO PUDDING 
The same receipt as above. Add two  eggs,  half a cupful of  milk  and a little  nutmeg.   
  
 SWEET POTATOES 
Take the quantity of  potatoes  you wish to have, according to your family. Boil them until they are almost cooked, then peel and slice them. Sprinkle them with  brown sugar,  and fry in hot  butter.   Peel and slice raw  sweet potatoes.  Let them soak a bit in very  cold water,  and fry them in plenty of hot  lard.  The more lard there is, and the hotter, the dryer your potatoes will be.  Take a few sweet potatoes, boil and peel them, and mash them with  butter.  Put them in a dish. Cover with  brown sugar,  and bake in the oven.  Sweet potatoes which are almost without taste are much improved if the tough outside skin is removed, and they are put under a  roast of beef  to cook. They will brown over nicely, and receive an agreeable flavor.  
  
 TO COOK AND SERVE TOMATOES 
No product of the vegetable garden in the whole circuit of the year is more amenable to skill in cookery than the tomato. Perhaps no other is capable of appearing in so great a variety of palatable and satisfying dishes. It combines admirably with other ingredients in a wide range, making it one of the best subjects for experiment and practice in high grade cooking that we possess. No single vegetable can be made of more use in furnishing a liberal and elegant table. Let us now consider some of these   uses, both of the usual and the more uncommon forms of serving it.  In the important matter of the family table, that true economy which consists of the best use of material to gain the desired end is greatly furthered by ingenuity in providing variety without extra expense. Here the skill of the cook has its actual money value; and no good housekeeper forgets that "money saved is money earned."   
 TOMATO SOUPS 
.--Either with or without  meat stock,  an excellent soup is easily made from  tomatoes.  A savory bisque requires only the quart or more of sliced tomatoes, stewed until tender with a little  water,  then pressed through a sieve and mixed with a pint of  rich milk  (an added cupful of  cream  improves it) slightly thickened by rubbing together two tablespoonfuls of  flour  with two of  butter  and cooking smoothly with the milk. Season to taste; a little  cayenne  is desirable, some will like a spoonful of  onion juice,  or  celery salt  may be preferred. Serve very hot, with  crackers  or  croutons . For this and for most tomato soups, canned tomato may be substituted for the fresh fruit.    A soup stock of  beef,   mutton,   lamb,   veal  or  chicken  makes a basis for a somewhat richer soup, and this is a convenient way of using remnants not otherwise available. Simmer the tomato slowly in the stock, coming in proportions to suit according to its richness. A weak stock may be re-enforced by a quart of tomato to a quart of  stock , and a  carrot  or two added, with half a mild  onion,  two or three stalks of  celery  and a little bag of  sweet herbs.  When the vegetables are very tender, press through a fine sieve and thicken very slightly as before with  flour  and  butter  rubbed together.    Another good combination is with  rice  cooked very thoroughly and put through a strainer. In this case no  flour  is needed. Especially good with  chicken,  and the  bones  of a pair of roast  fowls  will make a delicious tomato soup.    
 WITH VARIOUS MEATS. 
-- Tomatoes  may be roasted, broiled, baked, fried or stewed to accompany any kind of meat, or served in an almost infinite variety of combinations. They may be fried in deep  fat  or saut&#233;d--why have we no good English word to express that crisp, surface frying with a little  butter  or  fat  in a very hot pan? For baking, they may be carefully skinned and baked plain, set side by side in a  baking dish,  and serve hot with a little  butter,   salt  and  pepper  in the centre of each. Or the centre may be taken out carefully with a spoon, so as to leave a cup-like shell of the firm pulp, and a rich stuffing put in its place. A little  ham  or  veal,  finely minced and mixed with  cracker  dust, seasoned and bound together with a well-beaten  egg,  makes a good filling. Or the straight  pulp  of the  tomatoes  may be highly seasoned and mixed with grated  onion,   bread crumbs,   melted butter,   salt  and  pepper.  Add a lump of  butter  to each on taking up.    
 ESCALLOPED TOMATO 
is another savory preparation which may be varied with different seasonings. Arrange in layers, alternating with the peeled and sliced  tomato,   bread crumbs  dotted with  butter  and well seasoned, or a light sprinkling of  sausage  or very thin chips of  bacon.  Put a good layer of crumbs on the top and bake slowly for a full hour, then brown to a rich color.    
 Mushrooms and macaroni 
are two very unlike materials, either of which combines perfectly with  tomatoes.   Macaroni  may be used for an alternate layer, as in the escallop given above. An Italian method is to first fry a little minced  onion  in  butter  and add to it a pint of tomatoes cut small, with  salt  and  black pepper,  simmering gently until quite soft; then press through a strainer. The  macaroni    is cooked in another saucepan and carefully drained, then tossed with a liberal lump of good  butter,  until well cooled. Stir in the  tomato  and serve as soon as thoroughly heated.    
 WITH BEANS 
.--A "left-over" of  baked beans  goes well combined with  tomato.  They may be used together, either in the form of soup or sufficiently solid for a nice hot supper or side dish. To a pint of cold baked beans add a pint of  boiling water  and a pint of  tomatoes  cut small; also a slice or two of  onion  and two or three stalks of  celery.  Stew for twenty minutes, or longer if not in haste, and put through a strainer. Melt two tablespoonfuls of  butter  in a saucepan and blend with two of  flour;  add by degrees the  beans  and serve very hot. Use only  water  enough to prevent burning, if a solid dish is wanted.    
 SALADS. 
-The  tomato  serves perfectly in a salad, either with  lettuce  or  celery;  whole, filled or sliced; with a rich  mayonnaise,  or with the simplest  French dressing.     With a can of  salmon  a very handsome and rich salad is prepared. Take out the  salmon  in neat, firm bits and lay them in a dish of cold spiced  vinegar  while the  tomatoes  are prepared. Cut off the stem end and hollow out with a pointed spoon to make a neat, firm cup. Medium-sized tomatoes of even form and well ripened should be chosen. Mix a little  salt,   cayenne  and  vinegar,  with or without  oil,  as preferred, and sprinkle the tomatoes well, then fill with the  salmon.   Cucumbers  in paper-thin slices may be mixed with the  fish.  Serve on  lettuce leaves  with a cupful of  mayonnaise.     
 JELLIED OR FROZEN 
.--Both  cucumbers  and  tomatoes  are frequently served now in the form of  jelly,  using the  pulp  pressed through a  steamer,  with gelatine, as in other gelatine jellies. Cubes of this jelly are especially popular with chicken salad. Frozen tomato is offered in the same way with meat salads or cold luncheons. The pulp is highly   seasoned and frozen like a water ice. It is then either chilled again in small cups, to make an individual mold, or served by the spoonful upon the plates.    
 Tomatoes 
cannot be stewed under two to three hours to get rid of that raw, watery taste. Take five or six  tomatoes  or a can of tomatoes, throwing out the water, put in a saucepan with a small piece of  onion,  a bit of  parsley,   salt,   pepper,  teaspoonful of  butter,  a pinch of  sugar;  let it simmer from two to three hours uncovered. Serve for dinner or set aside to add to a poor soup, or to re-enforce a  gravy,  or if your dinner is short, put about half of it in a warm dish, poach six  eggs,  set them a few moments on a nice, dry, warm napkin to dry, then put them on the tomatoes and serve des &#x0153;ufs &#224; la portogais. Sliced fresh tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  and powdered with crumbs of  toasted bread,  fried in hot  butter  and served hot immediately, are very delicious for breakfast.    
 TOMATO TIMBALE. 
--To be served with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise sauce : Take six fresh  tomatoes  or a can of tomatoes, of which you throw off the liquor, stew them down sufficiently with a spoonful of  Cox's gelatine,  put enough to keep the tomatoes together, season to taste with  salt  and  cayenne pepper,  pour into small timbales to shape them, place on ice to get cold and serve with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise sauce.    
  
 TOMATOES 
 Tomatoes  must be cooked several hours, otherwise they taste sour and watery.  Slice them,  salt  and  pepper  them, add a few  bread crumbs,  broil them on the  gridiron,  serve very hot for breakfast.  Stuffed with  mince meat,  or sliced, with  French dressing  or  mayonnaise sauce,  they are delicious.    Scald, peel, and slice them. Put in the refrigerator, with  French dressing.  Put a slice of  onion  in the dish with them, and remove it before serving.   
 A NICE WAY TO COOK TOMATOES FOR BREAKFAST 
.--A nice way to cook  tomatoes  for breakfast is to slice them,  salt  and  pepper  them, sprinkle with  bread crumbs,  a little  butter  on them, and broiled. Serve very hot immediately, without letting them stand.   
  
 EGG PLANT 
Parboil them, cut them in half and scrape out the soft part, which you put in a bowl. Add to it some  chopped meat  and a little  stale bread.  Season with  salt,   pepper,   onions,   parsley,  and a little bit of  ham  or  tongue.  Put all in the frying-pan for a few moments, then put back in the egg-plant shells, with sprinkled  bread crumbs  on top, and brown in the oven.  
  
 FRIED CARROTS 
Take a few tender young  carrots.  Slice them (roundwise) very thin, roll them in  brown sugar,  and fry them brown in  butter.   
  
 JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 
Scrape and boil them, not too soft, with  salt.  They are delicious as a salad with  French dressing.  They can be used in a brown  chicken fricasse,  or with roast  chicken  or  duck,  or dressed with a  white sauce.   
  
 GLOBE ARTICHOKES 
They should be boiled with the leaves downward in  salt water.  Serve hot or cold, with  sauce   vinaigrette or white   sauce.  Also with the inside leaves taken out and filled up with stuffing of  veal  and  chicken,  and a little bit of  ham,  all well chopped up together. Let them simmer together for half an hour, adding a spoonful or two of soup to make a gravy.  
  
 SQUASH 
Take a  squash  or  cymling.  Parboil it. Cut it in half (roundwise), and with a spoon scrape out the inside part and put that in a bowl. Add to it some  stale bread crumbs,  a little  milk  or  cream,  a spoonful of  sugar,   salt,   pepper  and  butter.  Beat all well together, then put for a few moments into a frying-pan on the fire. Then put all back into the squash shell, sprinkle  bread crumbs  on top, and put them in the oven to brown a bit. They are most delicious cooked in this way.  
  
 CARROTS 
Slice five or six  carrots  roundwise. Put them into a saucepan. Add two or three tablespoonfuls of  water,  a tablespoonful of  sugar,  and a teaspoonful of very fresh  butter.  Cover closely. Let it simmer on a slow fire for two or three hours, and they will come out soft and tender. If you have a dish of  carrots  every day on your table you will save your doctor's bill.   Carrots  are very nice boiled sliced, and cooked with a  white sauce;  or, sliced in round, thin slices, put in a saucepan with  butter,   salt,   pepper  and a little  sugar.  Let them simmer on the side of the stove two or three hours, add a little chopped  parsley.  Perfectly delicious.  Take these same  carrots,  crush them, and pass them through a sieve. Add some  bouillon,  and let them cook slowly half an hour together. Such a delicious soupe cr&#234;me.    Boil a few  carrots,  not too soft. Slice and fry them in  butter,  after having sprinkled them with  brown sugar.  Serve hot.  
  
 LUCCHETTI--FRIED ITALIAN VEGETABLE 
Cut in strips, rather flat, like  potatoes,  for frying crisply &#224; la fran&#231;aise. Leave them two or three hours, after sprinkling  salt  on them, to expel the moisture. Lay them a little while on a napkin. Dip them in  flour,  and fry quickly until brown. Sprinkle  powdered sugar  on them before serving.  Or they may be served farcis, in pieces cut like fond d'artichauts.  
  
 SPINACH 
 Spinach  must be thrown into  boiling water,  and when sufficiently cooked drained in a  colander  or cheesecloth, and chopped fine on a very clean board with a perfectly clean knife, then warmed in a saucepan; add  salt,   butter  and  sugar  to taste, and serve very hot and quickly.  It should be trimmed with small pieces of  fried bread  around the dish.  
  
 STRING BEANS 
Make a bouquet of a small  green onion,  some  parsley,  a  laurel leaf,  a very small bit of  thyme.  Tie all together with a long string, add your  string beans,  and when the bouquet has boiled fifteen minutes, take it out, leaving the string beans to boil fifteen minutes longer. Let them, like  spinach,  dance around in plenty of  hot water.  When cooked, strain them in a  colander  at once. Do not let them get cold. Let them drip in a clean piece of cheesecloth   that has been well washed: never use it new. Then put the beans in a frying-pan with a little  butter,   pepper  and  salt.  Serve hot. Do not let them stand.  
  
 JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 
 Artichokes  may be boiled in  hot water,  salted, and served as a vegetable, with a  white sauce,  or as a salad, with a  French dressing,  or as a stuffing for  fowls,  or as a vegetable fried in  roast-beef gravy,  as they do the Irish potatoes. They are delicious in any form and should be boiled with the leaves down.  They are very nice with  chicken fricassee  or smothered with  chicken,  or with inside taken out and filled with the  veal  and  oyster stuffing.    Jerusalem artichokes  may be used in various ways and make an exquisite dish when well prepared, being delicious as a puree for a soup with  cream.  Steamed and allowed to get cold and prepared with  French dressing  they make a very good salad. In a brown chicken fricassee they improve the flavor very much. They can also be used in a  beef  &#224; la mode of  veal,  cutting the veal about four inches square; parboiled and browned in  butter  and served with a  white sauce,  this is a great delicacy.  --BROAD HOLLOW FARM,  Westberry, L.I.    
  
 ASPARAGUS IN THE OVEN 
Take four bundles of  asparagus.  Boil them. Cut off the soft tips about an inch long. Add to them a pint of  sweet milk.  Mix two or three  eggs,  a teaspoonful of  flour  (into which a teaspoonful of butter is mixed),  salt,   pepper,   butter,   onion juice,   parsley.  Add all together with a soup&#231;on of  grated cheese  on top, and put in the oven to bake for fifteen minutes.  
 
  
 ASPARAGUS SOUP 
This can be made next day from the same  water  in which the  asparagus  was boiled by adding whatever  cold meat  you have on hand, with  salt,   pepper  and  parsley.  If you wish to thicken it, small pieces of  potatoes,  cut up and passed through a sieve, may be added, also a handful of  sorrel,  a small  lettuce,  two small  green onions,  and  chervil.   
  
 HOW TO COOK MUSHROOMS IN A CHAFING-DISH HALF AN HOUR BEFORE SERVING 
Take a heaping plateful of nicely peeled  mushrooms,  put a tablespoonful of fresh  butter  into a  chafing-dish,  and pour the  mushrooms  on top of it.  Salt  and  pepper  them, cover them closely and let them cook twenty-five or thirty minutes. Put some nice pieces of dry toast on each plate, and serve yourself from the  chafing-dish.  Hail Columbia, it's good!  
  
 THE WAY TO TELL GOOD MUSHROOMS FROM POISONOUS ONES 
Only gather  mushrooms  in open fields where cows or sheep have pastured, and those that are pink underneath, and as they grow old and large dark brown underneath. They are all rather fat and stocky. Alongside of them grow cream-colored or white poisonous ones which smell rank. Do not touch them. Confine yourself to the pink and brown only and you are safe. If you have any doubts, throw them away. There are many other species of mushrooms, but if you keep to those described you are safe, and they are the best.  
  MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 
  
 MACARONI PIE 
Put the  macaroni  on to boil in plenty of  cold water  with an  onion.  Let it boil gently until the  macaroni  is quite tender, then throw it on a sieve to drain; but first wash it in  cold water.  Then put on half a pint of  cream  to boil with about four onces of grated  Parmesan cheese,  a tablespoonful of  mustard,  a little  cayenne pepper,   salt  and  butter.  Thin it in some  macaroni,  and let it stew gently a few minutes. Have some  grated cheese  mixed with a few  bread crumbs.  Put the  macaroni  in a deep dish, sprinkle the crumbs of  cheese  over the top and bake it. --MRS. PHILLIPS  (Dr. Arnold's Receipt).    
  
 CORN OYSTERS 
Grate one pint of  young corn,  add one  egg,  well beaten, one small teacupful of  flour,  one-half cupful of  butter,   salt  and  pepper,  mix well. Fry a spoonful at a time,  butter  them.  
  
 EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE 
Slice some nice fresh  tomatoes,   salt  and  pepper,  put  crumbs of bread  on them, fry them well, put them in a hot dish and put on top several  poached eggs.  The same can be served on a good  tomato sauce  that has cooked three hours.  
  
 EGGS A LA MORELLE 
Boil six or eight  eggs  hard twenty minutes. Make a nice white sauce in a double saucepan with a pint of  cream,  mix a tablespoonful of  butter  with  flour,  add gently and carefully to cream,  salt,   red pepper,  and a little  onion juice.     MARCHAND D'OINONS Des oi-nons sont &#224; bons mar-ch&#233; c'est li &#231;i c'est li &#231;a La comm&#232;re tour-ne-ra le dos c'est li &#231;i c'est li &#231;a.  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL  An illustration of a boy carrying onions       When the sauce is made, cut the eggs in half and add the sauce.  
  
 HOW TO MAKE TEA 
Scald your teapot with  boiling water.  Put in it a spoonful of  tea  with a large spoonful of  hot water.  Let it stand one moment. Add a cupful of  boiling water.  Let it stand. Add another cupful to suit the taste. By this system you extract the best aroma out of tea. Of course your  water  must be boiling. Put a little  hot water  in your cups to warm them.  
  
 COLD TEA 
Make your tea early in the afternoon, and pour it from one vessel to another, shaking violently until it pains your arm. Then pour it into the pitcher from which you wish to serve it, and let it stand on the  ice,  or in the refrigerator, until you want it. Crack your ice fine, and put a small quantity in each  tumbler.  Then pour in the tea, already sweetened, and add slices of  lemon  to taste. --MRS. PHILLIPS,  of Washington, D.C.    
  
 HOW TO MAKE DRIP COFFEE 
Take a French dripper, or  French coffee-pot.  Wash it in hot water. It must be perfectly pure and clean. Put in it two or three tablespoonfuls of  Java  and  Mocha  mixed. Pour over it a quarter of a cupful of  tepid water,  just to soak the  coffee.  Let it stand a few moments, then pour on it a cupful of  boiling water,  and let it drip five minutes more. Then add another cupful of  hot water.  Test the  coffee.  If it is too weak, pour the whole thing over the top again. If it is too strong, add more hot water. Rinse your cups in hot water before using them.  
 
  
 WAFFLES 
Beat two  eggs  thoroughly, separately. Add a heaping cupful of  flour.  Thin it with  sweet cold milk  to a soft consistency. Add pinch of  sugar,  pinch of  salt,  and a little  baking powder  on the end of a spoon. Beat well with an  egg beater.  Double the amount if necessary, beating  whites  and  yolks  separately.  
  
 SODA BISCUITS 
One quart of  flour,  teaspoonful of  salt,  two teaspoonfuls of  baking powder.  Mix together in a bowl, then add a tablespoonful of very  fresh lard,  and one cupful of  milk.  Mix with the hand quickly. Cut in small round pieces, and put in a pan and bake.  
  
 ROLLS 
Take a quart of  flour,  a spoonful of  lard,  a pinch of  salt,  and  water  enough to soften the paste. Mix well over night. Put in buttered pans next morning and bake.  
  
 WAFFLES 
Two tablespoonfuls of  flour,  two tablespoonfuls of  hominy,  one  egg,  one teaspoonful of  butter,  one teaspoonful of  lard,  one half-pint of  milk,  and a little  salt,  beat up very lightly. --JULIA PARKMAN.   
  
 MUFFINS 
A cupful of  hominy  with a little  salt,  a teaspoonful of  butter,  a cupful of  wheat flour,  a tablespoonful of  sugar,  a half-teaspoonful of  salt,  one  egg,  a teaspoonful of  baking powder.  Mix well with  sweet milk  until a smooth paste. Put a spoonful in a buttered mold.  
 
  
 EGGS A LA MORELLE 
Cut six hard  boiled eggs  in half. Take the  yolks of three eggs.  Put them in a small saucepan with a pint of  cream  and a good spoonful of  butter.  Stir all the time, the pan being in another pan of hot  water.  Be careful to put the  cream  in before the  butter.  Before serving put in a few drops of  vinegar  or a little  lemon juice.  Pour this sauce over your hard boiled eggs. It can also be used with vegetables.  
  
 BISCUITS MADE OVER NIGHT 
One quart of  flour,  pinch of  salt,  two tablespoonfuls of  lard.  Break over it a  raw egg.  One  yeast cake  in cupful of  cold water.  Knead it with the hand for twenty minutes. Let it rise over night. Cut out in round form with large cutter.  Butter  lightly with  melted butter.  Turn it over and let it rise for two hours, and bake in quick oven.  
  
 LOAF BREAD 
Three quarts of  flour  (for four loaves), one teaspoonful  salt,  one tablespoonful  sugar  and one tablespoonful of  lard,  dissolved in  hot water,  three-fourths cupful of  milk  and small  yeast cake  soaked half hour in tablespoonful of  tepid water.  Stir all together with knife until knife stands up in the sponge. Let rise over night. Knead out and put in pans not quite half full, that it may rise to the edge in about an hour. Bake in oven of moderate heat about an hour and a half.  
  
 THIN WATER BISCUITS 
One-half pound of  flour,  two ounces  butter  well rubbed into the  flour,  a pinch of  salt.  Mix into a stiff paste with   milk,  then roll out very thin. Prick the paste well with the  biscuit pricker.  Cut in diamonds, and bake them in a quick oven.  
  
 THICK WATER BISCUITS 
Three pounds of  flour,  two and a half ounces of  butter,  pinch of  salt,  one teaspoonful of  baking powder.  Mix all well together into a stiff  paste  with  milk.  Roll out one-half an inch thick. Prick them well. Cut them with a  round cutter  and bake as quickly as possible, but not in so hot an oven as the thin  biscuits.   
  
 SOUFFLE BISCUITS 
Rub four ounces of  butter  into a quart of  flour.  Make it into paste with  milk.  Knead it well. Roll it as thin as paper. Bake it to look white.  
  
 AUNT ANNE'S CORN-BREAD--WITHOUT POWDER 
Take a quart of  corn meal,  one quart of  milk  (you scald the milk and add it to the  corn meal ), tablespoonful of fresh  butter.  Let it stand until it cools off a little; then you add five well beaten  eggs.  Bake in a quick oven. Mix half quantity with three  eggs  if you wish a smaller  corn-bread.   -BALTIMORE.   
  
 AUNT ANNE'S DELICIOUS CORN-BREAD 
One cupful of  white corn meal,  one cupful of  boiled hominy,  knead two  eggs  in the hominy, put in a piece of  butter,  melted the size of a  hickory nut,  one pinch of  salt,  one good pinch of  sugar,  whip all that together, add corn   meal and  cold milk  alternately to a thick consistency until it drops off the spoon in a thick batter, like a thick mush. Sometimes put in a pinch of  yeast powder,  just as you are going to put it to bake. Mix it well, bake it and serve. Don't let it stand. -BALTIMORE.   
  
 AUNT ANNE'S HOECAKE 
Take a large cupful of  corn meal,  sift it in a bowl, one pinch of  salt,  mix it with a little  boiling water.  Let it get cold. Make some small round cakes, pinch them on top. Put in a pan to bake in the oven.  
  
 HOMINY BREAD AND WAFFLES 
One  egg,  four tablespoonfuls of  hominy,  four tablespoonfuls of plain  flour  (sifted), two tablespoonfuls of  melted butter,  and two cupfuls of  sweet milk.  Put the  butter  in the  hominy  and add the other ingredients, putting in the  flour  last, with a small pinch of  baking powder.   
  
 SALLY LUNN 
One quart of  flour,  one teaspoonful of  salt,  one tablespoonful of  sugar,  one heaping tablespoonful of  lard  and  butter  mixed with one-third of a  yeast  cake; three  eggs  well beaten. Make the dough with warm  water  in winter and with  cold water  in summer. It should be the consistency of light  bread  dough, or rather, softer. Let it rise for four or five hours. Touch lightly, and turn into a buttered cake mold, and bake without a second kneading. It will take nearly forty minutes to bake, and should then soak well. --LAUDERDALE,  Virginia.    
 
  
 CORN PONE 
Corn pone is highly recommended as a breakfast dish. Take a heaping coffeecupful of  boiled hominy,  heat it, and thin in a tablespoonful of  butter,  three  eggs,  and nearly one pint of  sweet milk.  As much  corn meal  may be added as will serve to thicken this till it is like the batter for "Johnnycakes." Bake in a quick oven and serve.  --"LEGS,"  one of Thomas Jefferson's Plantations.     
  
 POP-OVERS 
Two cupfuls of  flour,  three  eggs,  two cupfuls of  milk,  one-half teaspoonful of  salt.  Beat  eggs,  without separating, very light. Pour mixture slowly over  flour  to prevent lumping.  Grease cups  with  butter.  Put in oven to get hot. Cook in moderate oven at bottom about three-quarters of an hour.  --SARAH JOHNSTON.   
  
 SALLY LUNN 
Five  eggs,  one and a half pints of  flour,  full spoonful of  butter,  put in the  yolks  (whites are not used), and two spoonfuls of  sugar,  one glass of  sour milk,  with teaspoonful of  baking powder.   
  
 CORN BREAD 
A handful of  hominy,  two spoonfuls of  butter  and  lard  mixed, three  eggs,  one cupful of  corn meal,  and one cupful of  milk.   
  
 CORN CAKE 
With one quart of  corn meal,  scalded, mix one-half quart of  milk  and one-half quart of  water,  small quantities of  soda,   salt  and  brown sugar.   
 
  
 CORN MEAL BREAD 
Rub a piece of  butter  the size of an  egg  into a pint of  corn meal.  Make it a batter with two  eggs  and some  new milk.  Add a spoonful of  yeast.  Set it by the fire an hour to rise.  Butter  little pans, fill them, and bake.  
  
 SWEET POTATO BUNS 
Boil and mash a  sweet potato.  Rub into it as much  flour  as will make it like  bread.  Add  spice  and  sugar  to your taste, with a spoonful of  yeast.  When it has risen well work in a piece of  butter.  Bake it in small rolls, to be eaten hot with  butter.   
  
 COUCHE COUCHE 
Make a paste as you make for  corn bread  by the above receipt. Sweeten it with  sugar.  Instead of putting it in a pan, you  grease  a pot with  lard,  and as the  paste  cooks to the side of the pot, you scrape it off with a spoon. Do that five or six times, until all your paste is cooked. It is delicious for breakfast with coffee. The Southern children are very fond of it with  milk.   
  
 GRAHAM WHEATLETS 
One pint of  Graham flour,  nearly one quart of boiling  water  or  milk,  and one teaspoonful of  salt.  Scald the  flour,  when you have salted it, into as soft dough as you can handle. Roll it nearly an inch thick, cut in round cakes, lay upon a buttered tin or pan, and bake them in the hottest oven you can get ready. The lightness of the  wheat lets depends upon the degree of heat. Some cooks spread them on a hot tin, and set this upon a red-hot stove. Properly   scalded and cooked they are light as puffs, and very good, otherwise they are flat and tough. Split and  butter  while hot.  
  
 PANCAKES 
Ingredients:  eggs,   flour,   milk  and  salt.  Beat the  eggs  well in a basin. To every  egg  add one dessertspoonful of  flour,  one teacupful of  milk  and  salt  to taste. Mix these to a fine batter, then let stand for four hours in a cool place. Have frying-pan very hot. Put in a piece of  butter  the size of a walnut. Put in half a teacupful of the batter, and fry to a light, nice brown. Roll and serve while hot with  sugar  and  lemon.  --"AUNT SUE,"  S.C.    
  
 PANCAKES 
Three  eggs, a half pint of  milk,  two tablespoonfuls of  flour.  Mix  eggs  and  flour;  add  milk,   salt  and  nutmeg.  Fry a tablespoonful at a time in  hot lard.   
  DESSERTS  
  
 CREAM A LA CELESTINE 
Six  yolks of eggs,  one  white of egg,  one pound Menier  chocolate,  two cupfuls of  sugar,  one quart of  cream,  one pint of  milk.  Flavor with  vanilla.  Beat the yolks of eggs, add the white of one, and  sugar,  and beat all firm. Then add the  cream,  stirring slowly until well mixed. Let the  milk  come to a boil and add the  chocolate.  When well mixed, add it to the  eggs,   sugar,  etc. Stir gently, strain. Allow it to cool and then freeze.  
 
  
 MANCHESTER ICE-CREAM 
Four  eggs, whites  and  yolks,  one pint of  cream,  one-half pint of  milk,  two cupfuls of  sugar.  Mix the  sugar,   cream  and  milk  together, and stir in the well-beaten  eggs.  Put all in the freezer and turn for twenty minutes without stopping. Then put in a mold, and pack in ice until wanted.  
  
 FLOATING ISLAND 
One quart of  milk.   Sugar  to taste. Flavor with  vanilla.   Yolks of seven eggs,  well beaten, and two  whites,  all beaten together; add to  milk.  Stir gently over a slow fire. Beat well the  whites of five eggs;  add very little  powdered sugar.  Take the beaten eggs by spoonfuls and put on top of your boiling  milk  (before you make your cream). Turn over every spoonful of egg on the  milk  for two or three minutes. Put them on a sieve to drip on a very clean cloth in the ice box.  
  
 HARD CUSTARD 
One quart of  milk.   Sugar  to taste. A piece of  vanilla bean.  Let your  milk  come to a boil; take it off the fire for three or four minutes. Add five well-beaten  eggs.  Add them gradually to the  milk.  Pour it in a mold in which you have put caramel, and place that in a  bain-Marie  (double saucepan) in the oven for twenty minutes. Let it get cold in the  ice box,  and turn out when wanted.  --LEONIE PENIN.   
  
 SOFT CUSTARD 
Same proportions. Seven  yolks of eggs  and two  whites.  Add to warm  milk,  and put it on a slow fire, stirring it all the time for five or ten minutes. Do not burn it. --LEONIE PENIN.   
 
  
 SWEDISH CREAM 
Take six  eggs,  beat the  whites  and  yolks  thoroughly. Add one and a half spoonfuls of  sugar.  Boil a quart of  milk  and  cream.  Let it get cold, and flavor with  vanilla bean.  Add two spoonfuls of  burned sugar.  Strain. Put in a mold. Then put that mold in a double saucepan (with water) in the oven. When solid turn it over in a dish of light brandy around it.  
  
 "EDGE HILL" COOKED APPLES 
Take six or eight good-sized fresh  apples.  Peel and core them, taking out the heart. Fill each up with  brown sugar.  Put them in a pan or dish. Sprinkle brown sugar freely over them and put slices of  lemon  around the dish, with small pieces of  cinnamon.  Add a spoonful or two of  water.  Put in the oven, and bake a golden color. It jellies beautifully. Serve with fresh  cream.  --SARAH RANDOLPH.   
  
 CARAMEL PUDDING 
Five  eggs,  the four  yolks  and one whole one, one gill of  cream,  one half-pint of  milk,  one ounce of sifted  sugar,  one quarter of a pound of lump  sugar,  just moistened with  cold water,  then boiled to a light golden color, poured into a mold. When the  caramel  is set, then pour in custard, tie down with  foolscap paper  and steam very gently for an hour and a half. When cooked it should be buried in ice until required for use. The eggs,  cream,   sugar  and  milk  should all be well beaten together.  --LEONIE PENIN.   
  
 PLUM PUDDING 
One and a half pounds of  raisins  (stoned), one and a half pounds of  currants,  one and a half pounds of  suet,  one and   a half pounds of  sugar,  three-quarters of a pound of  flour,  three-quarters of a pound of  breadcrumbs  (soaked in one-half pint of  milk ), ten  eggs,  one  apple  (chopped), a quarter of a pound of  candied peel,  one ounce of  bitter almonds,  one ounce of  sweet almonds.  Boil gently for ten hours, and serve with  brandy sauce.   --E.S. WILLIS.   
  
 PORCUPINE PUDDING 
Take six good  apples.  Peel and core them. Make a little  syrup  with  sugar  and  water.  Let your apples cook in that syrup, roasting them. When the  apples  are soft, take them out, put them in a flat dish. Let your  syrup  thicken a bit, pour it over the  apples,  and let them get cool. Beat the  whites  of two or three  eggs  stiff. Put it over the  apples,  shaping it in the form of a pudding. Stick in it all over bleached  almonds.  Let it brown in the oven.  --MISS BANKS,  S.C.    
  
 MERINGUE PIE 
One pint of  stale bread crumbs,  one quart of  milk,  nearly one teacupful of  sugar,  three  eggs,  leaving out the white of one for the meringue. Season the pudding with the grated  rind of one lemon.  Mix all together and bake until you can put the handle of a teaspoon in and it comes out clean. Then cover the pudding with some  preserves.  Make your meringue of the one  white of egg  and teacupful of  sugar.  Spread in on top of the preserves, and put in the stove until it is lightly browned. You may double the receipt if more is wanted.  
  
 MONKEY PUDDING 
Take about half a loaf of  stale bread.  Let it soak in nice  milk  (as much as you would put for a bread pudding)   several hours. Add a little  cream  to it. Put in three heaping spoonfuls of  brown sugar,  two heaping spoonfuls of powdered  cinnamon,  a few stoned  raisins.  Cook in the oven with a slow fire until it looks like an old monkey. Serve with a stiff  sugar  and  butter sauce,  flavored with a little  wine.   --CELESTINE EUSTIS.   
  
 PLAIN RICE PUDDING 
One and a half quarts of  milk,  one-half cupful of  rice,  three-fourths of a cupful of  sugar;  dessertspoonful of  butter.  Wash your rice well. Put as much  milk  as the dish you wish to bake your pudding in will hold, together with the rice. Allow it to boil, and as the  milk  cooks away, keep adding more until all is used; then add  sugar  and  butter,  and bake until brown. When your pudding is baking and the crust forms, skim it off each time for five or six times before allowing it to finally form and remain. This is important.  
  
 CORN PUDDING 
Take six ears of  corn.  Boil and grate them; add a spoonful of  sugar,  pinch of  salt,  a spoonful of  cream,  four  yolks of eggs  and the four  whites,  well whipped up. Mix well. Put in a buttered dish, and bake for half an hour in rather warm oven, as you would for a souffl&#233;.  
  
 CORN PUDDING 
Cut six ears of soft  corn from the cob,  making several cuts in each grain, and scrape the  milk  from the  cob.  To this add one  egg,  well beaten, one tablespoonful of  sugar,  one of  butter  and one teaspoonful of  salt.  Mix all well together and bake for half an hour. --"LAUDERDALE,"  Virginia.    
 
  
 CUSTARD BREAD 
Take three  pie plates.  In the first one put some  sweet milk  with a spoonful of  powdered cinnamon;  in the second one beat up four  eggs, whites  and  yolks;  in the third one put some  brown sugar.  Cut some slices of  stale bread,  dip them first in the  milk,  then in the  eggs,  and roll them in the  brown sugar  and fry them in some  butter  until brown. Put those that are cooked in a hot plate. You can only cook three at a time in a saucepan. Keep them hot. Sprinkle a little  powdered sugar  and serve with a  wine sauce  for dessert.  --"UNCLE JOHN,"  S.C.    
  
 MINCE-MEAT 
One pound of  raisins,  one pound of  currants,  one pound of  sugar,  one pound of  suet,  all chopped; two pounds of  apples,  raw, and chopped; two ounces of  candied orange  and  lemon peel;  the  juice of one lemon;  one pint of  brandy  or  rum.   --E.S WILLIS.   
  
 CANDIED ORANGE 
Peel and quarter the  oranges.  Make a syrup in the proportion of one pound of  sugar  to one pint of  water.  Then take it from the fire and dip the quarters of orange in the syrup. Let them drain on a fine sieve placed over a platter, so that the syrup will not be wasted. Let them drain until cool, when the sugar will crystallize.  
  
 HOW TO MAKE A CARAMEL 
Four tablespoonfuls of any kind of  sugar,  one tablespoonful of  cold water.  Let it cook until it candies, more or less according to color. If you wish it to color a pudding, put it in the mold first, and then pour in your pud-   ding. Another way is to add it drop by drop to a cream or custard. Or, if you like better, pour it over your pudding or cake.  
  
 FRUIT IN ITS OWN JUICE 
Prepare your  fruit  for eating by removing the stones and paring if necessary; put it in a closed vessel and expose it to a scalding heat, either in a dry oven or one filled with  water,  taking care not to let it burn. Fill up jars and seal them carefully. Keep them in a cool place. Stone jars are the best. The fruit spoils if exposed to the air.  
  
 PRALINE COCOANUT 
Take a fresh  cocoanut,  break it open and grate it carefully. Take a cupful to two cupfuls and a half of the best  white sugar.  Put the  sugar  in a nice clean saucepan to cook until it candies. Add the cocoanut. Let it cook a moment, turning it all the time. Put it in pats on a large china dish or a piece of marble. Do the same with  brown sugar.   
  
 PRALINE PECANS 
Take a cupful of well and carefully peeled  pecan nuts.  Take two cupfuls of  brown sugar  and half a cupful of  water.  Let simmer on the fire until it candies. Put in the nuts. Stir them all the time until the  sugar  adheres to the nuts. Be careful it does not burn. Put in a plate to cool and serve. Do the same thing, but do not turn it. Put them a spoonful at a time in small paper boxes or in pats on a dish. The same thing can be done with  peanuts.  Peanuts powdered and added to  ice cream  is delicious.   (Sold on the street corners in New Orleans.)    
   CAKES  
  
 GINGERBREAD 
One quart of  flour,  one-half pound of  butter,  one-quarter pound of  sugar,  five  eggs,  one-half pint of  molasses,  one-half cupful of  ginger,  one teaspoonful of  soda.   
  
 LOAF OF GINGERBREAD 
A loaf of gingerbread is good enough to make one quite indifferent to the fact that it is by no means an economy. To make one: work a cupful of  butter  until creamy, then mix with it a cupful of  brown sugar.  Separate the  whites  and  yolks of four eggs,  and beat both until light, frothing the  whites.  Stir the  eggs  with the  butter  and  sugar  and add a cupful of sour  cream  mixed with a cupful of  molasses.  Before putting the  molasses  and  cream  together, add to the  cream  two teaspoonfuls of  soda,  dissolved in a little warm  water.  Measure four cupfuls of  flour  and mix with it a teaspoonful of  salt  and a teaspoonful of yellow  ginger.  Add this to the batter. Do all the mixing as quickly and lightly as possible. Bake thirty minutes with moderate heat.  
  
 MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 
The molasses must be the  unrefined black New Orleans molasses  and the sugar must be the  coarse, dark, unrefined brown sugar.  One cupful of  butter  (melted), one cupful of  molasses,  one cupful of  brown sugar,  two  eggs  well beaten, two cupfuls of  flour,  one tablespoonful of  ginger,  one teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half teaspoonful  baking soda.  Beat this mixture well and drop it in spoonfuls on a baking sheet   or  roasting pan.  Spread it with a wooden spoon very thin and evenly over the pan and bake ten or twelve minutes in a moderate oven. Let it cool a little after it is drawn from the oven, and then cut it up into any desired shapes.  --MRS. BRIDGHAM.   
  
 DROP PUFFS 
Delicious for dessert. Served with  powdered sugar  or  wine sauce.  Four ounces of  flour,  two  eggs,  dessertspoonful of  white sugar,  pinch of  salt,   sherry  glass of brandy, a good  tumbler  of  sweet milk,  a teaspoonful of  orange flower water.  Beat it all up thoroughly. Drop a spoonful in plenty of very hot  lard.  Turn them over until they are a golden color. Sprinkle a little  powdered sugar  over them and serve very hot.  
  
 GINGER CAKE 
One teacupful of  molasses,  one teacupful of  brown sugar,  one teacupful of  butter,  three teacupfuls of  flour  (sifted), three  eggs,  one tablespoonful of powdered  ginger,  one teaspoonful of  soda.  Rub  sugar  and  butter  well together. Beat  eggs  well and add. Then stir in  molasses,   ginger,   flour,  and last, the  soda,  dissolved in a little  milk  or  water.  Bake quickly. --ALISON.   
  
 STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 
Two cupfuls of  flour  (sifted), two  eggs,  one cupful of  sugar,  a good half cupful of  sour milk  or  cream;  the latter is best. Mix half a teaspoonful of  baking soda  in the  cream.  Use a steel fork. Beat the  butter  to a  cream;  add the  sugar  first, then  eggs,  one at a time, and  milk,  and  flour  alternately. Cook in buttered  pie plates  in the oven like  corn bread.  Put confection between.  
   MAMZELLE ZIZI  Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi li-j'aiu dou-ler dan ker-a-li Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi-zi li-j'aiu dou-ler dans ker-a-li.  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        SAVANNE Gottschalk's famour "Savanne" was written on this theme  An illustration of a young girl crying.      
  
 LEONIE PENIN'S DRY CAKE 
One cupful  sugar,  one cupful  flour,  dried in the oven and sifted, one cupful  butter, three  eggs.  Beat all together in a bowl very thoroughly.  Butter  two  pie plates,  and put a little  flour  in the plates, then put in your cake and bake in the oven.   The same receipt can be used for chocolate cake, putting all the dough in one  pie plate,  and when once it is cooked and cooled off, you slice in half and  butter  with  apricot jam,  and put the slices together again with a nice  chocolate icing  on top.   
  
 DELICATE CAKE 
One teacupful of melted  butter,  two teacupfuls of pulverized  sugar.  Stir  butter  and  sugar  to a  cream;  add one teacupful of  sweet milk,  one tablespoonful of  vanilla,  and the  whites of eight eggs  beaten to a stiff froth. Lastly add three teacupfuls of sifted  flour  (measured before sifting) and two even teaspoonfuls of  baking powder,  thoroughly mixed with the  flour.  This makes two cakes. Do not move the pans while baking until the cake is nearly done, unless it should bake too much on one side, when it must be carefully done to avoid its falling. The eight  yolks  make a nice cake by adding two whole  eggs  and beating all together. Then take the same ingredients as above, and when poured in the pan stick full of nicely shred  citron.   
  
 COMMON CAKE 
One cupful of  butter,  two of  sugar,  three of  flour,  four  eggs,  a little  milk,   soda  and  nutmeg.  Beat the sugar and butter together. Beat the eggs separately, and mix with sugar and butter and add the flour.  
 
  
 SMALL SPONGE CAKE 
Five  eggs,  one-half pound of  sugar,  one-half pound of  flour.   
  
 INDIAN SPONGE CAKE 
One cupful of  Indian meal,  one-half cupful of  flour,  two cupfuls of  milk,  two tablespoonfuls of  molasses,  one teaspoonful of  saleratus.   
  
 GINGERBREAD 
One cupful of  butter,  one cupful of  brown sugar,  four  eggs,  one cupful of sour  cream,  one cupful of  molasses,  one teaspoonful of  soda,  dissolved in warm  water,  four cupfuls of  flour,  teaspoonful of  salt,  two teaspoonfuls of  yellow ginger.   
  
 FLAT COOKIES 
One quart of  flour,  one pint of  sweet milk,  one tablespoonful of  butter,  one-half teaspoonful of  salt,  one-half teaspoonful of  baking powder,  one-half cupful of  sugar.  Rub  butter  thoroughly with hands; add  sugar,   milk  and  flour.  Mix well with fork. Roll, cut out with  tumbler  on flat board. Handle very lightly. Bake twenty minutes.  
  
 LEONIE'S CAKE 
One cupful  sugar,  one cupful  flour  dried in the oven and sifted, one cupful nice fresh  milk,  three  eggs, whites  and  yolks.  Put everything together in a bowl and beat it thoroughly. Put it in one or two well-buttered  pie plates,  according to the thickness you wish to make your cakes. Sprinkle a little  flour  over your buttered  pie plates  before putting in your cake. Bake in the oven. If you wish to make a chocolate cake, make your cake (by the above receipt)   an inch and a half thick, slice it in half,  butter  it with  apricot paste  or  jam,  then put on top a nice layer of  chocolate cream,  as follows: Take three tablets of  Maillard's best chocolate.  Boil a cupful of  milk  and let the chocolate dissolve in it, stirring it over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour. Then spread on top of your cake while hot.  
  
 SWEET WAFERS 
Six  eggs,  one pint of  flour,  two ounces of  melted butter,  one and a half cupfuls of  powdered sugar,  one cupful of  milk,  one teaspoonful of  nutmeg.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately and very stiff. Rub the  sugar  and  butter  together, and work in first the  yolks,  then the  milk,  then the  flour  and  whites.  Bake in well-buttered wafer or  waffle irons  very quickly, browning as little as possible. Roll them while hot upon a smooth, round stick not larger than your little finger, slipping it out carefully when the wafer takes the right shape.  
  
 MOLASSES CAKE 
A cupful of  sugar  and a cupful of  butter  stirred to a  cream,  then a cupful of  molasses  and a cupful of  milk  with a teaspoonful of  baking powder,  five  eggs  beaten very light; then stir in the other ingredients alternately with a cupful of  flour.  Stir the batter well and bake it quickly.  
  
 SWEET WAFERS 
One pint of  flour,  one teacupful of  sugar,  one tablespoonful of  butter,  three  eggs,  separated and well beaten, one-half cupful of  milk.  Mix the batter the same as for cake and bake in wafer-irons.  
 
  
 CHOCOLATE ICING 
Take three tablets, or one-quarter of a pound of  Menier's best chocolate,  one cupful of  milk,  which you boil. Put in the  chocolate  to dissolve, stirring it gently for a quarter of an hour. Let it cool off and then apply to the cake.  
 
  
 ART AND SCIENCE OF SALAD MAKING 
No careless hand can make a perfect salad. To be sure, Nanette, the cook, who tosses in this, adds a sprinkling of that and pours in  oil  and  vinegar  with seeming abandon, sends to the table prepartions fit for the gods, But Nanette, in her line, is an artist who has acquired the simple stroke that produces the masterpiece. Occasionally there arises a genius in lay ranks who snaps her finger at experience and arrives at Nanette's degree of skill by inspiration. But geniuses are few.  In no other dish is there so wide range for individuality of treatment as in the salad. No single process in its preparation is unimportant. The meats and vegetables must not be too coarse nor too fine. In making them ready the  chopping knife  and  meat grinder  must have no part. Only the crispest, freshest vegetables should enter into its composition. Much depends upon the quality of the vinegar and oil. Sharp vinegar is to be avoided. If that on hand is too sour weaken it with a little  water.  A little  lemon juice  may be used if greater acidity is wanted. A ready supply of  herb  vinegars, such as  tarragon,   nasturtium,   chervil,   celery  and  mint,  add greatly to the possibilities in flavoring. The wise salad maker has at her finger tips a knowledge of the adaptability of the different vinegars, flavors and foundation materials. The  tarragon  flavor, for instance, is delicious with  meats  and  fish.  The nasturtium, most persons think, lends itself best to vegetables.  Mint vinegar  has its votaries, but many people object to its flavor, excepting with lamb, chicken and certain green salads.  Celery vinegar  combines well with nearly all salads.  Chopped  parsley,  chervil,  sheep sorrel,   nasturtiums    (leaves, flowers and stems), and other  herbs  chopped fine and sprinkled over the salad or incorporated with the dressing, ring delightful changes. At a certain farmhouse this summer tender wintergreen leaves from the woods, used moderately in various salads, puzzled the guests with their delicate fragrance.  Garlic, at which too many persons shudder, because of malodorous memories, lacks the respect in this country that its character merits. Used properly,  garlic  is more delicate and delicious in flavor than  onion.  It is the misuse of the vegetable that has gained for it its undeserved notoriety. The French know to a T its worth. A single  clove of garlic,  or two at the most, are enough for a large mixture. It is a good idea to rub the bowl in which the salad is dressed or the dish in which the dressing is made with a halved  clove of garlic.  It is still better, some think, to saturate a piece of  bread  with its odor and in turn to use the  bread,  transfixed with a fork, to wipe the dish. Another way of obtaining the flavor is to chop a  clove or two of garlic  to infinitesimal fineness and mix it with the other ingredients.  If  onion  is used, it is always preferable to employ the juice and not the pulp. By some cooks the  onion  is grated, but even this method leaves tangible evidence of the most odorous of vegetables to catch in the teeth and retain the flavor in the mouth. To some presons,  onions  are hurtful, but they are seldom injured by the juice. To obtain the juice, cut the onion in two, hold it on a fork over the mixture, and, with the back of a silver knife or spoon, press the cut side until the juice drops.  With such materials as  lobsters,   crabs,   shrimps,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  etc., which are liked for their individual flavors, it is a mistake to use flavored vinegars, onions or garlic. Such pungent additions are for accompaniments   of neutral hue, which need embellishment. With all salad preparations, except with the sweet kind, of course,  capers  and chopped  olives  and  pickles  in right proportion may always be used.  To blend the various flavors so that no one will be overshadowed by another is the acme of the salad maker's effort. Cold cooked vegetables, such as  potatoes,   beets,   carrots,  string beans,  celery knobs,  etc., will not absorb the dressing and its flavors. To obtain the best results most cooked vegetables should be covered with a  French dressing  while they are hot and should be left to cool in it. When they are cold they should be thoroughly drained. Then they may be dressed with  mayonnaise,  French or boiled dressing, as preferred. German cooks marinate hot  cabbage  in this way for a cabbage salad. With the marinate may be placed an  onion  or two, sliced; some  celery,   parsley,  chervil  or other  herb.  The French dressing may be made with any preferred  vinegar.   Utensils, ingredients and everything pertaining to the work should be chilled at the start. The  lettuce,  cress or other green, as well as any raw vegetable, such as  celery  or  radishes,  should stand in  ice-water  for an hour before they are wanted. Great care should be taken, however, when they come from the bath to dry them thoroughly. Drops of  water  will carry with them to the bottom of the dish an oily liquid that will detract greatly from the dainty appearance of the salad. In order to dry the vegetables drain and shake them in a  colander,  and then toss them about in a large, dry towel.  Stirring the ingredients together is the unpardonable sin of the art. By that means are produced the strange concoctions which are miscalled "salads." A light tossing with a fork in each hand will properly distribute the elements and seasonings and leave a light, crisp mixture.    Salads are practically of two classes--light and heavy--the former suited to dinners, and both to luncheons and suppers. No one would think, of course, of introducing  lobster  or  chicken  salad among the courses of a heavy dinner. Such a dish is calculated to appear as the pi&#232;ce de r&#232;sistance of &#224; meal.  The appearance of the salad is not the least important factor in its preparation. Vegetables that clash in color, like  beets,   carrots  and  tomatoes,  should never be mingled. The hue of the mayonnaise, or cooked dressing, may be varied by different devices. For green,  spinach juice  can be used, or a mixture of  herbs,  such as  lettuce,   cress,   chives,   chervil  and  parsley,  may be crushed together until their  juices  are expressed. The addition of this liquid to  mayonnaise  converts it into  Ravigote sauce.  The powdered coral of the  lobster,  softened with  lemon juice,  produces an attractive red. For other shades of red,  tomato  puree or  beet juice  may be employed.  Yolk of egg  will serve for yellow.  Vegetable and  fruit cups  afford no end of variations.  Celery knobs  boiled until they are tender, cut in two and scooped into cups are delicious filled with a macedoine of vegetables. A slice is usually taken from the bottom of each to enable it to stand. The vegetables are first marinated, then drained, filled into the cups and topped off with a spoonful of mayonnaise. The white cups arranged on a bed of green cress or  lettuce  produce a charming effect. For meat, fish or other mixtures the work of the server will be greatly enhanced if the  lettuce  is first arranged in little nests in the dish and they are filled with the preparation. These nests may be easily lifted with the fork and spoon from the dish to the individual plate. To arrange them put the stem ends of three or four tender, curled leaves together, lapping them over each other enough to   make a substantial receptacle. Hollowed out  cucumbers,   beets,   tomatoes,   green and red peppers  and  apples  may all do duty as cups.  A solid, prettily shaped  cabbage  with the centre cut out makes an ornamental bowl for cabbage salad. The  cabbage  should stand on a bed of curly  parsley  or other green. Ribbons of  red peppers  may edge the platter. The salad should be heaped in the  cabbage.  It may be garnished simply with stuffed  olives  and tiny 
 gherkins .   Sweet peppers  are too little 
known, although they are gaining in popularity with Americans. With many vegetables they are very delicious. The  seeds  and  white  inner  pulp  should be thoroughly removed (these are the parts that bite). Then cut the  peppers  into small strips or dice. The  peppers  may be used in salads of  cabbage,  mixed vegetables of  potatoes,   beets,   beans,  etc.;  tomatoes  and various other mixtures.  Salad dressings are practically three-- mayonnaise,   French and cooked dressing.   Whipped cream  is an improvement in most cases to the mayonnaise and boiled kinds. It should be added just before the dressing is used.  
  In the summer the bowl in which 
 mayonnaise 
is made should stand in ice while the process is going on. The old time-devouring way by dropping the  oil  with one hand and stirring with the other has happily been obviated by various oil dropping inventions which have reduced the work to a minimum. The housekeeper is often puzzled to know what to do if the quantity of mayonnaise needed is too much for one  raw yolk  and not sufficient for two. By mashing a  hard cooked yolk  with the  raw yolk  the problem will be settled. The process of making is the same as if both yolks had been uncooked. They are first seasoned with  salt  and  white pepper  and  mustard  if it is wanted. Then the  oil  is dropped slowly while the beating continues rapidly.    As the  eggs  begin to thicken drops of  vinegar  or  lemon juice  are added from time to time.  
  For 
 French dressing  
four spoonfuls of  oil  to one of  vinegar  instead of the usual three to one formula is liked best by most persons.  In the making of French dressing the old saying, "A spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar and a madman to stir," is an infallible guide. If this dressing is made at the table the  oil,   vinegar,  seasonings and salad should be placed before the one upon whom that office falls. After the dressing is made a layer of the salad should be removed from the plate and placed on a cold salad plate ready at hand.  Dressing  should be sprinkled over this and thoroughly incorporated with it. Then another layer should be added, and so on until all the salad is dressed.  
  
 Cooked dressing 
may be made and kept for such emergencies as the cook's day out, unexpected company, etc. To make such a dressing put the  yolks of four eggs  into the upper part of a  double boiler  and beat them thoroughly. Add four tablespoonfuls of  oil,  stirring constantly. Then incorporate four tablespoonfuls of  vinegar.  Set the dish into hot  water  over the fire and cook. When the mixture begins to thicken remove it at once from the fire and beat until it is cold. Then add slowly four more tablespoonfuls of  oil,  one tablespoonful of  sugar,  a teaspoonful of  salt  and one or two tablespoonfuls of  French mustard.  Just before using it add one cupful of  whipped cream.   
  Tomato  and  aspic jelly  both make delightful accompaniment for salads. The jelly may be molded in a ring and the salad served in the centre; it may be molded in a solid form and the salad arranged around it, or it may be broken into sparkling cubes and heaped about the salad. 
  To make 
 aspic jelly 
soak two ounces of  jelly  in a cupful of  cold water  for fifteen minutes. Then add it to one   quart of clear  meat stock  or one quart of  water  tinctured with  beef extract.  Flavor with  white vinegar  and  lemon juice  until it is properly tart. Put in a couple of blades of  mace,  some  cloves  and a  bay leaf  and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. To the beaten  whites of two eggs  add a little  cold water  and the  juice of a lemon.  Stir them into the  jelly  and stir and boil for a minute or two. An  egg beater  is convenient to use in beating the  eggs  into the jelly. Draw the saucepan to a cool part of the stove and let it stand five or ten minutes. Then strain the jelly through a  jelly bag.  To color the jelly, the devices mentioned for mayonnaise may be employed.  
  
 Tomato jelly 
requires a can of  tomatoes,  an ounce of  gelatine and seasonings.  Soak the gelatine in one-half cupful of  cold water  for half an hour. Meanwhile cook the tomatoes with three tablespoonfuls of  vinegar,  a teaspoonful of  salt,  a tablespoonful of  sugar  and a dash of  paprika.  Then add the gelatine to the tomatoes and stir until it is dissolved. Strain the  jelly  through a  jelly bag  and mold.  The  tomato jelly  may be served on a bed of  lettuce  with a  mayonnaise,  as has already been suggested.  
  
 Apple cups 
may be filled with a salad of  mushrooms  (cooked), stuffed  olives  (sliced),  nuts  and a few delicate  tips of celery.  Moisten the mixture with  French dressing  and top off with  mayonnaise  and  whipped cream.  This salad may be served with  lettuce  instead of in  apples.   Shredded  red pepper,   stoned olives  and  cabbage  make a delicious combination.  
  
 SALAD SAUCE 
Rub with a fork the  yolks of two eggs, boiled hard,  and cold, with fresh  mustard  and a little  sauce;  four tablespoonfuls of  oil  to one and a half of  vinegar,  mixing into a  cream.  Chop fine  chervil,   tarragon,  and use with  lettuce.  The sauce should be kept separate until needed.  
  HINTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS  Keep the cover on for all dry vegetables, and off for all green vegetables.  Cook all green vegetables quickly over good fire.  Do not let them stand, but serve at once, or they will lose their color and taste watery.  Let the  spinach  and  string beans  frolic in plenty of  boiling water.   Waters in which vegetables have been boiled can be used in cooking, except  potato water  and  cucumber water.  They have been known to poison a dog.  Good soups can be made with  rice water  by adding well-cooked  tomatoes,  an  onion,   parsley,   salt  and  pepper.  The same is true of  string bean water,  and a delicious soup can be made of  spinach water  by adding  spinach,   onion,   parsley  and a mashed  potato.   An excellent soup can be made by boiling a can of  corn  in one quart of  milk  and  water,  equal proportions. Season with  salt,   pepper  and  butter.  After it has boiled ten minutes, stir in three  well-beaten eggs.  Serve hot with a little  toasted cracker  added just before sending to table.  Cooking is like gardening--always something to learn. The proper quantity of  salt  for  rice  is a teaspoonful to every large cupful of  rice.   You can get much nutrition from  cracked bones,  but be careful to strain them, and get all the small bones out of your juice, which can then be added to gravies.  Always hang your fowls by the legs, it makes them more tender.  Green vegetables must be cooked in boiling  water  (by "green" vegetables are meant all those growing above   ground), throwing the vegetables in it, salted, and not covered. Dry vegetables, or those under ground, are cooked in  cold water,  and not salted at first, but when half cooked. If you  salt  your vegetables too soon they become hard, and are difficult to cook.  The flesh of  fowls  should be wiped with a dry or moist cloth, as need be, and never washed under a  spigot,  as that destroys the individual taste of the  fowl.   Wash your green vegetables quickly in plenty of  water.  Do not let them soak.  The great secret of good cuisine is to leave to every dish its own particular taste, and not to put indiscreetly  mace,   cloves  and  aromatic herbs  in everything, or they will all taste alike.  Salting draws out the nutritive part of  fish,  as it does of  meats,  and  salt fish  should be used as a relish only. The  juices  of  fish,  especially shellfish, are of an alkaline nature, and this renders  lemon juice  or  vinegar  desirable as a neutralizing agency.  Only use the best of  sweet oil,  and the sweetest, freshest  butter  and  lard,  and the very best of everything. If you have any doubts about any article of food throw it away, and do not risk making any one ill! That is poor economy!  Do not throw away the bones of turkey or chicken. Crack them and let them boil for two or three hours in a little  water.  Put in also any nice bits of  fowl  that are left, particularly the wings. To this add any soup stock you have, and with a little  barley  or  rice  or  sago  you have a nourishing soup. Season with  salt,   pepper  and any aromatic herbs--any vegetable you have on hand.  With a remnant of  cold chicken,  cut it up with  celery  and cold  potatoes,  season with  French dressing , ornament with  lettuce leaves.   Botanically,  potatoes  belong to the same poisonous order   as  tomatoes  and contain an acid  juice  which is unpleasant to the taste and renders them indigestible. This lies in and near the skin of the potato. It is drawn out by heat. When  potatoes  are baked, it escapes in the steam, if they are opened at once, and when they are boiled it is absorbed in the water. It is best to peel the potatoes before using them, and to let them soak in  cold water,  covered by the water. New potatoes are watery, as the  starch  is not fully developed. They have a very thin skin, which may be rubbed off or brushed off.  Put in a flat dish what remains of  hominy  from breakfast, smooth it flat with the back of a spoon an inch thick; cut it up in diamond shape when cold two or three inches square.  Salt  and fry in  hot lard.  Do not let it stand. Serve hot.  To any  rice  left over add  sweet milk  to soften it. Let it stand. Add enough  flour  to keep it together.  Salt.  Let it stand half an hour. Roll a spoonful of it in your hands, flatten it down and fry in hot  lard.  Some persons add  eggs.   OKRA HIBISCUS  De Brazza, the great explorer, told me that in his expeditions into Africa whenever they stopped for a few months the first thing they planted was Okra Hibiscus, because they considered that vegetable to be so wholesome and nutritious.  BREAD  Eat your bread stale and not fresh. Have it sliced, dried in the oven and then toasted.  GUMBO FIL&#233;   Gumbo  Fil&#233; is a powder prepared by the Indians. When the leaves of the sassafras trees are very tender and   green, they gather them,dry them, pound them and put them in bags. This powder may be found at Park &amp; Tilford's, N.Y., or at Solari's Grocery Store, Chartres St., New Orleans.  GOFIO  Gofio is some corn meal dried in the oven and salted. It is an Indian preparation. They put it in a bag and eat it on their tramps, or when they go out hunting. 
  
 HOW TO DESTROY FLIES 
To one pint of  milk  add a quarter of a pound of raw  sugar  and two ounces of ground  pepper.  Simmer them together for eight or ten minutes and place it about in shallow dishes. The flies attack it greedily and in a few moments are suffocated. By this method kitchens may be kept clear of flies all summer without the danger of poison.  
 FOODS THAT STEAL FLAVORS  It is generally understood that butter and milk can be tainted by proximity to decided flavors or odors, but not that all foods absorb and give out more or less of their individual aroma.  Vegetables of the plainest varieties are the worst offenders, not only onion and leek and the more pronounced ones, but the tame little beet and the saucy radish.  The subtle ways of these demure ones is something that households should guard against, but do not.  "We do get so tired of boarding," exclaims a woman who has gone back and forth from hotels to private boarding houses, but she does not realize the underlying reason.  The real reason is that the foods are all kept in the same place and all cooked in the same atmosphere, double occasion for the flavor exchange that takes place.    Fruits of the handsomest varieties are prone to make this exchange, and cheeses, wines and even nuts will do the same thing.  You leave celery in the  ice chest  with cream cheese, and if you have a discriminating taste you won't know which is which by nightfall.  Cream is so sensitive to influences that shut up in the cold box with a peach it will taste like peach ice cream before two hours.  It is difficult to keep these items apart always, but care can be exercised by placing the more delicate articles in covered jars and the vegetables in paper wrappers or even paraffin. Keep the ones most likely to exchange confidences in upper and lower partitions of the  ice box,  remembering that flavor crossing is an epicurean annoyance. 
  
 MRS. PHILLIPS' CELEBRATED PICKLE PEACHES 
Take a peck of half ripe  peaches,  put them into a strong  pickle  of  salt and water  that will bear an egg. Let them remain in it three days, then take them out. Drain them. Put them into a stone jar and stew them over one ounce  mace,  one ounce  cloves,  one ounce grated  nutmeg,  a handful of  sliced green ginger  and  garlic,  two bottles of  mustard  and cover with best  vinegar,  cold. They will not be fit for use for three months.  
 HOW TO MAKE A LUNCH WITH NOTHING, AND A GOOD SOUP WITH WHAT REMAINS FROM BREAKFAST  Some years ago we were at the Beverly House in Massachusetts. We were invited to lunch with friends at Hamilton, twelve miles off. When we arrived our host met us at the door in his shirt-sleeves, very red in the face with excitement. He threw up his arms in despair and exclaimed: "Didn't you get my despatch telling you not to   come? My wife is ill in bed; the cook left us yesterday, and there isn't a thing to eat in the house!" Having Yankee blood and French blood in my veins, I was not to be downed by such trifling obstacles, but accepted the situation at once and answered: "If you will allow me to go into your kitchen and get some one to help me I will see what can be done." The answer was, "We'll all help you, for we are very hungry and it is past two o'clock." I looked into the larder, and there I found a desperate looking bone, the remnant of a leg of mutton, with two cold potatoes. I cut into small pieces what I could find of  meat;  I did the same with the  potatoes,  and put them to simmer with a little  cold water,   salt  and  pepper.  I sent the boys to the garden to see what they could find. They soon came back with fresh  tomatoes,   lettuce,   parsley  and  onions.  I added a little  parsley  and  onion  to my Irish stew; then I boiled six  eggs  for twenty minutes; made a nice  white sauce  with  cream,   butter  and a little  flour,  flavoring it with a piece of  onion,   parsley,   cayenne pepper;  cut the  eggs  in half, put them in the  cream sauce  in a double saucepan until ready to serve, des &#x0153;ufs &#224; la Morelle. A fisherwoman in Deauville, France, taught me how to make this dish. Then I sliced some  tomatoes,  salted and peppered and powdered them with crumbs of  toasted bread,  fried them in hot  butter,  put them in a hot dish, poached six  eggs  and put them on the  fried tomatoes,  made some dip toast, a nice French dressing for the  lettuce  and some good hot  coffee,  and in an hour and a half we all sat down to lunch in jolly spirits. The lady of the house paid me the compliment to say it was the best tasting breakfast ever had in her house.  The English butler recognized me later in life as the lady who always cooked her own lunch when she went out.  A lady once said to my dear mother: "I wish you would lend me your cookery book, I want to ask you   to dinner and treat you to something good." The answer was, "You had better dine with me, as I know my book by heart." 
  
 HOW TO MAKE A GOOD SOUP WITH WHAT REMAINS FROM BREAKFAST 
Take the remnants of a  beefsteak,  cut away all fat, cut the meat in small pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover your meat with  cold water,  put the lid half way on, let it simmer and draw half an hour, add to it two or three spoonfuls of cooked  tomatoes;  cut a cooked  potato,  a  carrot  sliced in two, half an  onion,  a small piece of  cabbage,   parsley,   salt  and  pepper.  Let it simmer two hours. If you find it short add a little  cold water  with your vegetables and you will have a delicious soup.  --"MON REPOS."   
 If this modest work can be of use to young housekeepers, I shall feel rewarded for the pains I have taken in putting it together.   
  
 PUNCH 
Put in the  rind  of three  lemons,  pour one wineglassful of  Jamaica rum,  two wineglassfuls of  brandy,  three tablespoonfuls of  loaf sugar,  a tumblerful and a half of  water ice.  Pour on one bottle of  champagne.   --MRS. EUGENIA PHILLIPS.   
  
 CLARET PUNCH 
Slice three  lemons,  pour over one wineglassful of  Jamaica rum,  one glassful of strong  green tea,   sugar  to taste, one bottle of claret. Put in two or three cupfuls of  well-pounded ice.   --CELESTINE EUSTIS.   
  
 BUCKNER PUNCH 
For each quart bottle of  champagne  mix and add one wineglassful of good  brandy,  one wineglassful of good  rum,  one wineglassful of good  arrack , one wineglassful of good  kirsh,  one wineglassful of good  anisette,  one wineglassful of good  Maraschino,  one wineglassful of good  Cura&#231;oa,  two slices of ripe  pineapple,  two slices of sweet  orange,  one toddy glassful of pulverized  sugar.  At first put in a small quantity of ice, and later fill the bowl with large lumps of  ice.  It should stand three hours before using.  N.B.--The foregoing concoction would, I think, be the death or destruction of any one who sipped it. I should advise two quarts of water to each quart of punch!  --E. E.   
  
 "EGGNOGG" 
 Yolks of thirty-two eggs  and thirty-two heaping tablespoonfuls of  powdered sugar,  beaten to a froth. Add to this one and a half pints of  brandy  and one-half pint of   Madeira  or  sherry wine.  To this add two and a half quarts of  whipped cream;  then beat the whites of the thirty-two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir all thoroughly together, the  whites of the eggs  being added last of all.  --MRS. TANIER.   
  
 CAFE PARFAIT 
Take two quarts of sweet fresh  cream  and put it in a bowl. Pound in a clean cloth one pound of ice and add to the  cream.  Add a pint and a half of essence of  coffee,  and  sugar  to taste.  Take two glass pitchers and pour the mixture from one pitcher into the other until thoroughly mixed. Keep on ice fifteen minutes until ready to serve. This is very suitable for an afternoon tea in summer.  --CELESTINE EUSTIS.   
 
 
    LA CUISINE CREOLE  &#224; L'USAGE DES PETITS M&#233;NAGES      UN PITI DINE CREOLE  AUX DELEGUES  DE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLOB, LA LEAGUE INTERNATIONAL DE PRESSE CLOB,  Dans l'Atheneum, cot&#233; l'encoignure Clio et St. Charles,  SAMIDI, 19 FEVRIER, CI LA LA 1898,  Dans la Ville Nouvelle Orleans, Louisiane,  Cot&#233; neuf heurs du Soir.  Haillons cass&#233;s vaut  Mieux pass&#233; tout nu.  Absinthe et 'nisette.  Dans la Louisiane y&#233; trouv&#233; bon calas,  Des Huitres, Choupique et bamboula.  Huitres Bayou Maringouin.  Avec un bon gombo prepar&#233; par Silvie,  S&#225;ns jamais babill&#233;  mo  pass&#233; mo la vie.  Gombo fil&#233;, Bisque 'cr&#233;biches.  Piti Legumes avec di' Sel.  Quand mo t&#233; gamin  Mo mama di moin,  Co'bullion poisson,  Mo gar&#231;on,  C'est qui' chose qui bon.  Courtboullion Patassa.  HAUT SAUTERNES 1878--Calvet et Cie.  Ravet jamais gagnin raison devont poule.  Pat&#233; Poule.  "Cr&#233;biches c'est fouti betail."  Cr&#233;biches Bouilli.  Chaqu'n connain &#231;a qua p&#233; bouilli dans so chaudi&#232;re.  Haricots Rouge--Riz.  ST. JULIEN 1876--Calvet et Cie.    Ye vant&#233; ye Terapin,  Mais gout&#233; un fois Ca&#x0153;ne,  Et vous mang&#233; qui chose qui fin.  Fricass&#233; Ca&#x0153;ne.  'Fo pas marr&#233; chien avec saucisses.  Jambalaya Tchourisses.  Dinner Creole li pas complet  Sans piti cochon di lait.  Cochon maron farci roti,  Salade doucet et chicore.  Un zozo dans mo la main, vaut  Mieux que plein zozo qua p&#233;  Voltig&#233; dans bois.  Cailles laurier en baguette  Cresson Bayou des Herbes.  CHAMPAGNE DE G.H. MUM ET CIE.  Lagniappe c'est bitin qui bon.  Mais tac tac, Pralines Pacanes, Pain Patates, La Cuite. Quarti la Glace. Quarti Gateau.  Biscuit, Nestomac milatte,  Pom' cak Tante Zizine.  Y&#233;n a pas Soco ni Plaquemines,  Mais na donne vous &#231;a qui na.  Banans, Z'Orange, Canne sucre, Mandarine.  Caf&#233; Cr&#233;ole noire ("Morning Joy").  Chatte Grille pair di feu.  Brulo.  Cigarettes perique--papier mais.  Cigarettes Cr&#233;ole--papier jaune.  Quand na pas choual, mont&#233; bourique;  Quand na pas bourique, mont&#233; cabri;  Quand na pas cabri, mont&#233; jambe.  D&#233;sign&#233; et execut&#233; par Geo. G. Voitier, Steward N.O.P.C.  
    A SMALL CREOLE DINNER  TO THE DELEGATES OF  THE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLUB, INTERNATIONAL  LEAGUE OF THE PRESS CLUB,  In the Atheneum, corner of Clio and St. Charles Streets,  SATURDAY, 19TH FEBRUARY, 1898,  In the City of New Orleans, Louisiana,  Any time near nine o'clock.  Tattered rags are better than to go naked.  Absinthe and Anisette.  In Louisiana they find good calas, (cake eaten with coffee).  Oysters, Choupique and bamboula (national dance).  Oysters from Mosuito Bayou.  With a good gombo prepared by Silvie,  Without ever scolding I would pass my life.  Gombo fil&#233;, Bisque 'cr&#233;biches.  Small vegetables with salt.  When I was a little boy  My mother would say  This stewed fish, my son,  Is mighty good.  Courtbouillion Patassa from Bayou Patassa.  HAUT SAUTERNE 1878--Calvet &amp; Co.  A cockroach never holds its own before a hen.  Chicken Pat&#233;.  A crawfish is a darned beast!  Boiled crawfish.  Every one knows what boils in his own pot.  Red beans with rice ("Hopping John").  SAINT JULIEN 1876--Calvet &amp; Co.    They boast of their terrapin, But once taste Ca&#x0153;ne, And you taste something which is fine.  Fricassee Ca&#x0153;ne (Pig-skin).  Don't tie your dogs with sausages.  Jambalaya Tchourisses (Rice and blood-puddings).  A Creole dinner is not complete  Without a little suckling pig.  A runaway pig, stuffed and roasted.  Sweet salad with chickory.  A bird in the hand  Is better than all the birds flying in the woods.  Snipes with laurel leaves en baguette.  Watercresses from Bayou des Herbes.  CHAMPAGNE--G.H. Mumm &amp; Co.  Lagniappe is something very good (a corruption of a Spanish word which means thrown in a  market basket   over  and  above ).  Popcorn, Sugared pecans, Sweet potato bread, Thick molasses.  The last drawn from the pots in the sugar-house before it turns to sugar.   A fourth of an ice cream. A fourth of a piece of cake.  Ice cream biscuit. Mulatto stomach (gingerbread).  Tante Zizine's poundcake.  There are no Skipenon grapes and no persimmons,  But we'll give you what there is.  Bananas, Oranges, Sugar cane, Mandarins.  Black Creole coffee ("Morning Joy").  A singed cat fears the fire.  Brulo.  Cigarettes perique--corn paper.  Creole cigarettes--yellow paper.  When you have no horse, you ride a donkey; When you have no donkey, you ride a goat; When you have no goat, you go on foot.  Designed and executed by George G. Voitier, Steward  New Orleans Press Club.  
 
   LA CUISINE CR&#233;OLE &#224; L'USAGE DES PETITS M&#233;NAGES  I.--GOMBO FIL&#233;  Mettez dans une casserole une cuiller&#233;e de saindoux bien frais et une de farine laissez-le roussir un brun dor&#233;, puis tournez toujours jusqu'&#224; ce que votre roux devienne un brun dor&#233;. Coupez un oignon en petits morceaux et laissez-le frire. Coupez un chapon ou une poule en petits morceaux et mettez-les dans la casserole, remuez toujours jusqu'&#224; ce que le poulet brunisse. Quand le tout est d'une jolie couleur, coupez une demi tranche de jambon en petits morceaux et faites frire en ajoutant un piment vert et un rouge, sel et poivre en g&#244;ut. Ajoutez un demi litre d'eau bouillante et laissez le cuire pendant deux heures et demie. Un quart d'heure avant de servir, ajoutez deux douzaines d'hu&#238;;tres avec leur jus. Juste ou moment de servir, ajoutez une cuiller&#233;e &#224; soupe de filet en tournant tout le temps, mettez-le sur le feu un instant toujours en le travaillant. Ne mettez pas trop de filet, la cuill&#232;re ne doit pas &#234;tre trop pleine. Servez tr&#232;s chaud avec du riz sec. Ou peut mettre des crevettes aulieu d'hu&#238;;tres pour changer. 
 II.--GOMBO FEVIS  R&#233;petez la m&#234;me pr&#233;paration de volaille que pour le Gombo fil&#233;, coupez quatre tomates crues dans une po&#234;le, a'joutez y un canne de f&#233;vis--ou une livre de f&#233;vis frais coup&#233;s en petites tranches--faites tout revenir dans la po&#234;le avec une demi cuiller&#233;e de saindoux pendant une demi-heure en tournant tout le temps que vous ajoutez au poulet et vous laissez le tout mijoter sur un petit feu une heure et demie ou deux heures. Servez chaud avec du riz sec dans un plat s&#233;par&#233;ment.    GOMBO ZHERBES  Prenez une bonne poign&#233;e de feuilles de moutarde, de betteraves, de radis, d'&#233;pinards, de patience, et une salade de laitue; faites bouillir &#224; gros bouillons, comme des &#233;pinards, &#233;gouttez, hacez le tout. Ensuite, faites frire quelques petits morceux de jambon, volaille coup&#233;e, ou poitrine de veau; ajoutez un peu de farine et faites roussir, mettez les herbes dans la po&#234;le, faites mijoter avec quelques cuiller&#233;es d'eau et servez avec du riz sec. Il faut que cela ait la consistence d'une pur&#233;e un peu ferme.  GOMBO DE CRABES  Prenez une demi livre de veau ou une demi volaille, coupez en tranches, faites un bon roux, ajoutez un demi litre d'eau, faites mitonner sur le feu; &#233;pluchez douze ou quinze crabes avec les mains, conservant la chair seulement; faites revenir dans une po&#234;le, avec du beurre, les crabes, pendant quelques minutes, puis versez-les dans la casserole sur le jus de veau et n'oubliez pas d'ajouter quelques petits morceaux de jambon frit, assaisonnez bien au go&#251;t et servez avec du riz sec. Avant de m&#234;ler les crabes &#224; la sauce, il faut avoir soin de retirer tous les gros morceaux de viande, afin que le go&#251;t de crabe domine.  SOUPES A L'OSEILLE  Faites cuire dans un peu de beurre frais de l'oseille, ajoutez de l'eau, un peu de sel, laissez mijoter 1-2 heure, mettez un blanc d'&#x0153;uf dans une tasse, d&#233;layez un jaune d'&#x0153;uf avec un morceau de beurre et une cuiller&#233;e de cr&#232;me si vous aimez, ajoutez &#224; la soupe et versez-le sur des tranches de pain, servez un peu de cerfeuil hach&#233; dessus.  Apr&#232;s avoir cuit l'oseille, ajoutez trois cuiller&#233;es de tomate bien cuite, ajoutez de l'eau, sel, faites bouillir, mettez vermicelle, laissez mijoter longtemps.  Faites cuire de l'oseille comme ci-dessus, mettez de l'eau, coupez quelques pommes de terre laissez cuire une   heure &#224; feu pas trop vif, passez les pommes de terre au tamis, si vous pr&#233;f&#233;rez, liez avec quelques cuiller&#233;es de cr&#232;me et versez sur des tranches de pain coup&#233;es tr&#232;s-fin.  POTAGE MARINIERE  Pour six personnes, prenez un litre d'eau faites bouillir. Dans l'eau bouillante jetez un oignon coup&#233; en morceaux que vous avez fait cuire &#224; la po&#234;le, sans prendre couleur, laissez bouillir cinq minutes, ajoutez deux livres de poisson de diff&#233;rentes sortes, bien propre et tr&#233;s frais, venant d'&#234;tre p&#234;ch&#233; si possible, salez et laissez bouillir mod&#233;-r&#233;ment pendant quinze minutes, liez avec deux cuiller&#233;es de ayoli, laissez cuire deux minutes, liez de nouveau avec un jaune d'&#x0153;ufs, filet de vinaigre ou citron et un morceau de beurre tr&#232;s frais, passez sur de simples tranches de pain coup&#233;es tr&#232;s fin, servez tr&#232;s-chaud.  Ayoli.--Dans un mortier en marbre ou en bois pilez une gousse d'ail quand elle est bouillie ajoutez de l'huile d'olive en tournant toujours proc&#233;dez comme pour la mayonnaise, dont elle doit avoir l&#224; consistance, faites-en deux ou trois cuiller&#233;es et versez dans le potage en remuant et tenir seulement au chaud. Le potage doit &#234;tre fait tr&#232;s minutieusement pas trop riche et n'avoir pas le go&#251;t d'ail il est delicieux.  SOUPE A LA JULIENNE  Pour la julienne il faut couper des carottes, navets, poireaux, c&#233;leri blanc en petits filets. Ajouter des petits morceaux de choux-fleurs, des pois verts un peu de persil h&#226;chez-les faire frire dans du beurre sans les brunir--ajouter du bouillon de b&#x0153;uf laisser mijoter &#224; un petit feu deux heures, par assiett&#233;e de soupe, il faut calculer deux cuiller&#233;es de l&#233;gumes coup&#233;s. Ou peut le faire au maigre, &#224; l'eau aulieu de bouillon, on y ajoute une cuiller&#233;e de sucre si l'on veut, ce qui est d&#233;licieux c'est du c&#233;leri cuit avec un peu de bon bouillon comme l&#233;gume et mang&#233; avec le poulet.    Notre cuisini&#232;re coupait un peu de choux dans la julienne et y mettait un peu de sucre, c'est tr&#232;s-bon.   RIZ A LA VALENCIENNES  Mettre dans une casserole tr&#232;s grande, quatre cuiller&#233;es d'huile d'olive, deux gousses d'ail coup&#233;s en petits d&#233;s, un gros oignon coup&#233; en petits d&#233;s, 1-2 livre de jambon coup&#233; en petits d&#233;s, un poulet gras, que vous d&#233;pecez.  Faites revenir le tout ensemble, dix minutes suffisent. Une fois le tout revenu, mettez imm&#233;diatement une livre de riz Caroline premi&#232;re qualit&#233;, donnez un tour de fourchette sur le feu, mettez ensuite l'infusion d'une pinc&#233;e de safran, puis six tomates coup&#233;s en d&#233;s. Mouillez &#224; point avec du bon bouillon, assaisonnez, sel, poivre, que vous avez auparavant en soin de bien faire frire dans un peu de saindoux. Mettez imm&#233;diatement au four tr&#232;s-chaud, pour que le riz gratine autour de la casserole. Cette casserole doit &#234;tre en fa&#239;ence munie de son couvercle. Une heure et quart suffit pour la confection de ce mets, lorsqu'on en comprend la cuisson.  JAMBALAYA  Prendre une volaille, bien l'assaisonner avec sel, poivre et piments, couper en petits morceaux et faire frire dans du saindoux (lard). Prendre du jambon coup&#233; et faire frire dans la m&#234;me po&#234;le. Lorsque la volaille est frite, ajouter de l'oignon coup&#233; tr&#232;s-fin et les faire bien roussir. Puis ajouter des tomates coup&#233;es et faire frire. Du persil h&#226;ch&#233;. Lorsque tout est bien frit, ajouter de l'eau 1/2 tasse, pour une tasse de riz) et laisser mettre sur un feu tr&#232;s-vif; lorsque le riz commence &#224; gonfler le mettre sur un petit feu et ajouter une petite cuiller&#233;e de beurre. Si vous tournez le riz dans la po&#234;le, le tourner avec une fourchette.  DAUBE GLACEE A LA CREOLE DE MADAME ROUZAN, NEE OLIVIER  Prenez un morceau bien &#233;pais de tranche de b&#x0153;uf (bas de la cuisse, morceau rond avec un os au milieu). Apr&#232;s    MARCHAND DE CALLAS  Bel cal-las tout - chauds!  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        THE CALLAS GIRL  An illustration of a girl carrying a bowl on her head.     l'avoir bien nettoy&#233;, lardez-le lib&#233;ralement avec du lard frais; salez et poivrez &#224; votre go&#251;t et placez le tout dans une terrine; mettez autour et sur votre viande des fines herbes hach&#233;es, un oignon coup&#233; en morceaux, sur l'un desquels vous piquerez un clou de girofle et une ou deux feuilles de laurier. Couvrez bien la terrine et mettez-la dans un endroit frais et laissez mariner la viande dans son jus pendant un, deux ou trois jours, selon la temp&#233;rature et votre convenance, mais ayez soin, une fois ou deux le jour, de retourner votre viande, afin qu'elle ne s&#232;che pas &#224; sa partie sup&#233;rieure. 
 N.B.--Si vous voulez que votre daube soit plus &#233;pic&#233;e, vous pouvez ajouter &#224; l'assaisonnement, ci-dessus, un petit morceau d'ail et une pointe de piment. Quelques personnes ont coutume aussi d'ajouter &#224; la marinade ci-dessus, une ou deux cuiller&#233;es d'huile d'olive et un filet de vinaigre. Cela ne fait qu'ajouter &#224; la succulence du plat, mais l'exp&#233;rience d&#233;montre que, dans ce cas, la daube, une fois cuite et froide, devient cassante et difficile &#224; couper en morceaux r&#233;guliers et partant, moins app&#233;tissante &#224; la vue. Le jour o&#249; vous devrez cuire votre daube, prenez plusieurs pieds de veau ou de porc frais (ces derniers sont peut-&#234;tre pr&#233;f&#233;rables) lavez-les et nettoyez les parfaitement et faites les bouillir, en ayant soin qu'ils soient toujours bien recouverts d'eau, jusqu'&#224; ce qu'ils soient cuits et bien ramollis. Mettez le tout de c&#244;t&#233; pour vous en servir comme ci-apr&#233;s. (Ne laissez pas refroidir.) 
 Otez votre viande de sa marinade, mettez la dans une grande casserole avec un morceau de beurre ou de graisse (ou peut omettre le beurre ou la graisse, si la viande est abondamment lard&#233;e). Faites revenir votre daube, c'est-&#224;-dire, faites la cuire pendant vingt minutes ou un peu plus, jusqu'&#224; ce qu'elle ait pris couleur. Versez alors dessus, ce que la terrine peut avoir de la marinade, mettez quelques carottes dans la casserole, et versez-y ensuite, les pieds que vous avez cuits &#224; part, avec leurs os, ainsi que   toute l'eau dans laquelle ils ont &#233;t&#233; cuits. Couvrez la casserole et mettez &#224; cuire &#224; petit feu; de temps en temps, &#224; mesure que le liquide baisse dans la casserole, remplacez par du bouillon (ou du beef tea) ou faute de bouillon, par de l'eau chaude. La cuisson devra continuer pendant plusieurs heures (selon la grasseur de la viande) et jusqu'&#224; ce que la viande soit parfaitement cuite. Enlevez la viande de la casserole, enlevez et jetez tons les os des pieds, placez la viande dans un moule ou un plat ou il pourra prendre forme en refroidissant.  Battez un &#x0153;uf et le mettez dans le liquide de la casserole, remuez bien le tout et passez dans une serviette et mettez &#224; refroidir dans un plat creux. Le liquide deviendra de la gel&#233;e quand il sera refroidi et se servira &#224; part.  DAUBE DE GAZWAY  Prendre une pi&#232;ce de viande ronde; s'il y a un os, il faut l'enlever. La viande doit &#234;tre assaisonn&#233;e de sel et de poivre de chaque c&#244;te; bien lard&#233;e de chaque c&#244;t&#233; et laissez d&#233;passer un morceau du lard lequel derra &#234;tre tranch&#233; de l'&#233;paisseur du petit doigt et de la longueur d'un bon doigt. Assaisonnez le lard de sel et de poivre un moment avant de s'en servir.  Mettez la viande dans un vase, ajoutez un morceau de piment, un morceau d'ail, trois clous de girofles, deux feuilles de laurier, tr&#232;s-peu de thym, pas d'oignon. La daube doit &#234;tre laiss&#233;e vingt-quatre heures dans son assaisonnement et doit &#234;tre retourn&#233;e deux ou trois fois pendant ce temps-l&#224;.  Apr&#232;s les vingt-quatre heures, placez la daube dans une chaudi&#232;re, ajoutez trois pieds de veau coup&#233;s en morceaux et deux carottes fendues en longueur et mettez la chaudi&#232;re sur un feu mod&#233;r&#233;. Elle devra &#234;tre bien recouverte pour emp&#234;cher l'&#233;vaporation et pour cela il faut placer sur le couvercle un poids comme deux fers &#224; repasser.  La cuisson faite vous retirez les carottes et les placez   comme un petit carr&#233; au fond du vase qui doit contenir la daube. Le vase doit laisser un peu d'espace autour de la daube pour la gel&#233;e. Coulez dans un linge tout le jus, versez-le dans le vase qui contient la daube et laissez refroidir jusqu'au lendemain. --CHEF DE MR. VALERIEN ALLAIN.   DAUBE GLAC&#233;E DE MADAME EUSTIS, MERE  Prendre dans la tranche (ou round of beef) &#224; peu pr&#232;s cinq &#224; six livres de l'&#233;paisseur de deux pouces un jour avant de cuire, coupez des bandes de lard frais, en morceaux d'un doigt de long et gros comme un doigt, assaisonnez le lard avec le sel le poivre, une bonne pinc&#233;e de salp&#234;tre, lardez la daube assez pr&#232;s &#224; pr&#232;s, ensuite frottez la daube de chaque c&#244;t&#233; avec le reste de l'assaisonnement. Apr&#232;s avoir lard&#233; le b&#x0153;uf, il faut l'attacher avec une ficelle, ne pas trop serrer pour qu'elle garde la forme ronde et plate et en cuisant mettre un petit couvercle sur la casserole qui touche la viande et mettre un poids dessus. Faites bouillir les pieds de veau s&#233;par&#233;ment et ajoutez cette eau gelatineuse &#224; la daube.--Il faut mettre la daube dans une terrine jusqu'au lendemain.--De bonne heure mettre dans le fond d'une casserole, la couane du lard, faire un bouquet de persil, thym, un oignon entier, un petit morceau d'ail--mettre autour et dessous des pieds de veau coup&#233;s un deux, bien fendus par le boucher--on met le jus que la viande a rendu dedans. On laisse cuire une demi-heure sur un feu tr&#232;s-doux. Apr&#232;s ou met assez d'eau pour que les pieds cuisent jusqu'&#224; ce que les os soient d&#233;tach&#233;s. Il faut que tout cuise &#224; petit feu doux pendant cinq &#224; six heures jusqu'&#224; ce qu'en touchant la sauce, que les doigts sentent que c'est collant. Il faut couvrir la casserole et quand c'est cuit mettre le b&#x0153;uf dans une terrine pour qu'elle prenne une bonne forme. Retirez les pieds et d&#233;graissez un peu la sauce et passez-la bien chaude dans un morceau de flanelle, mettez aussi deux coquilles d'&#x0153;ufs pour &#233;claircir la gel&#233;e quand elle cuit. Apr&#232;s qu'elle est pass&#233;e on la vide des c&#244;t&#233;s, au fond de la terrine, sans   lever la daube en ayant eu soin de mettre quatre demi tranches de carottes dans le fond de la terrine, afin que la gel&#233;e se forme sur le bas qui va &#234;tre le haut de la daube. On la met dans un endroit froid et quand on la sert, on la retourne sur un plat rond. Il faut essayer souvent avant de r&#233;ussir.  GRILLADES DE VEAU DE MADAME JOSEPHINE NICAUD  Demandez la petite tranche de veau, c'est plus tendre. Coupez une livre et demie de veau en petits carr&#233;s de trois centim&#232;tres, un centim&#232;tres d'&#233;paisseur, mettez une grande cuiller&#233;e de lard dans la po&#234;le, faites chauffer tr&#232;s-chaud, faites frire votre veau jusqu'&#224; ce qu'il soit bien roussi, ajoutez des oignons coup&#233;s tr&#232;s-fins, laissez colorer, ajoutez un quart de canne de tomates; sel, poivre, persil, laissez cuire, ajoutez un peu de farine,laissez roussir, mettez un peu de beurre, un peu d'eau, laissez cuire au petit feu &#224; peu pr&#232;s une demi-heure, couvrez &#224; demi pour laisser &#233;chapper la vapeur. On peut aussi ajouter des piments verts avec l'eau, car le piment ne permet pas la friture.  On peut aussi cuire du riz de veau dans cette m&#234;me sauce en retirant quelques morceaux de veau pour faire place et en les bassinant avec cette sauce qui les rend dor&#233;s.  Les perdrix cuites de cette mani&#232;re--c'est d&#233;licieux.--Faites revenir dans un roux quelques perdrix, ajoutez deux ou trois cuiller&#233;es de tomates, laissez tout mijoter une heure au petit feu. Assaisonnez au go&#251;t avec, sel, poivre, persil.  FOIE DE VEAU A LA CELESTE  AUTREMENT DIT UN PLAT CANAILLE  Coupez quelques tranches de foie de veau tr&#232;s-tendre &#224; peu pr&#232;s trois centim&#232;tres carr&#233;s, faites un roux, ajoutez si vous voulez tr&#232;s-peu d'oignon h&#226;ch&#233; fin, faites revenir ou frire vos tranches de foie de veau, ajoutez un peu de jus de viande ou bouillon, un peu de persil, laissez mijoter une   demi-heure, faites bouillir du macaroni Italien, mettez dans un grand plat, avec des morceaux de citron. C'est un plat canaille, comme disait la vieille Celeste, mais d&#233;licieux.  PERDRIX AUX CHOUX  Faire blanchir les choux, presser pour faire sortir l'eau ficelez et faites revenir dans le m&#234;me beurre que les perdreaux, faites un roux, ajoutez quelques morceaux de carotte, faire cuire pendant trois heures.  Faire revenir les perdreaux, ajouter les choux blanchis, carottes, oignons, persil, vin blanc, bouillon et un peu de rhum, faire cuire trois heures.  Faire revenir quelques morceaux de lard, ensuite les perdreaux, ajouter choux blanchis, bouillon, saucisson, jambon, chipolata, faire cuire trois heures.  BLANQUETTE DE VEAU  Coupez des morceaux de veau en carr&#233;s faites les revenir d'une belle couleur dor&#233;e ajoutez de l'eau froide, juste au niveau de la viande, mettez sel, poivre, un oignon, une carotte, persil, feuille de laurier, faites cuire deux heures &#224; petit feu. Dans une autre casserole, mettez un morceau de beurre bien frais, deux cuiller&#233;es de farine, tournez toujours et faites bien cuire sans prendre couleur, mouillez avec le jus de la viande, laissez mijoter, dans une tasse d&#233;layez un jaune d'&#x0153;uf avec jus de citron ou filet de vinaigre et une cuiller&#233;e de cr&#232;me, ajoutez &#224; la sauce, tournez un instant, mais ne pas laisser bouillir et versez sur la viande que l'on a gard&#233;e au chaud avec un peu de jus. On peut y ajouter quelques champignons si l'on veut.  --LEONIE PENIN.   FARCE POUR PATES OU POUR DES DINDES OU POUR DES VOLAILLES 
 H&#226;chez tr&#232;s-fin une demi-livre de jeune veau bien assaisonn&#233;, faites revenir avec un peu de graisse et farine, ajoutez un peu d'eau des hu&#238;;tres, faites frire les hu&#238;;tres l&#224;-dedans.    M&#234;me farce pour les volailles et les dindes en ajoutant un peu de pain s&#233;ch&#233; au four mettez-y du piment rouge.  On peut aussi cuire des pigeons dans cette m&#234;me sauce et du riz de veau.  CERVELLES DE VEAU OU MOUTON AU BEURRE NOIR  Prenez un litre d'eau, un oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et poivre, faites bouillir quinze minutes, ajoutez deux cervelles de veau tr&#232;s-fraiches, laissez bouillir vingt minutes, retirez et &#233;gouttez, mettez dans un plat, salez et poivrez, ajoutez un filet de vinaigre ou du jus de citron, versez dessus du beurre noir (sans &#234;tre br&#251;l&#233;) saupoudrez de persil frais hach&#233; tr&#232;s-fin ou si vous pr&#233;f&#233;rez quelques branches de persil frit, servez tr&#232;s-chaud.  ROGNONS DE MOUTON SAUTES  Prenez gros comme une noisette de beurre et deux cuiller&#233;es de farine, faites un roux mouillez avec du bouillon, ajoutez, un petit oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et poivre, faites mijoter une demi-heure, ajoutez quelques cuiller&#233;es de mad&#232;re ou sherry, dix minutes apr&#232;s mettez quatre rognons de mouton (tr&#232;s-frais) coup&#233;s en tranches minces, laissez mijoter cinq ou six minutes, servez garni de croutons. 
 Si cela vous plait, vous pouvez y ajouter quelques champignons coup&#233;s et quelques petits morceaux de lard frit.  Prendre de la viande de cochon pr&#233;par&#233;e pour saucisse, m&#234;lez &#224; des pieds de cochon bien bouillis, envelopp&#233;z dans une toillette c'est la dentelle de graisse qui provient du mouton; faire frire. D&#233;licieux pour le d&#233;jeuner.  BECASSINES DE LA NOUVELLE ORLEANS  Faites une gel&#233;e mad&#232;re et pieds de veau, prenez du veau, un petit morceau de porc sal&#233; et de foie de veau;   h&#226;chez le tout tr&#232;s-fin, avec assaisonnement, laissez mijoter &#224; un feu doux, pulverisez, m&#234;lez le tout faites une bonne p&#226;te, h&#226;chez truffes et champignons, ajoutez l'eau des deux. Mettez vos b&#233;cassines coup&#233;es en deux, remplissez les avec le hachis mettez au feu dix minutes, arrosez avec la gel&#233;e.  CRABES FARCIS  Seulement &#233;chauder vos crabes avec de l'eau bouillante, nettoyez bien, &#244;tez seulement la chair qui est ferme et le jaune, jetez-le humectez avec de la cr&#232;me, go&#251;tez si c'est amer, ajoutez une petite cuiller&#233;e de beurre, mie de pain, sel, poivre, remettez dans les coquilles, saupoudrez de chapelure, mettez au four.  COTES DE HOMARD  Prenez six pommes de terre cuites pour un homard. Faites revenir le homard &#224; l'huile, ajoutez-y un verre de cognac allumez-le, tout en le laissant sur le feu et le tournant, quand la flamme est eteinte, le cognac fini, on ajoute du vin blanc, poivre, sel, cayenne et versez par-dessus une sauce tomate bien assaisonn&#233;e.  BRANDADE DE MORUE  Dessalez la morue pendant vingt-quatre heures au moins, blanchissez-la au feu, &#244;tez la peau, les arr&#234;tes, pilez-la bien au mortier, ayez de l'huile, de l'ail, du persil, un peu de vinaigre bouillant, m&#234;lez votre morue en tournant toujours du m&#234;me c&#244;t&#233; et en y ajoutant toujours de l'huile et de la cr&#232;me (ou du lait) &#224; mesure que cela devient &#233;pais, tournez bien jusqu'&#224; ce qu'elle soit blanche, servez dans un plat ou dans une croute de vol au vent.  J'ai compris que c'est sur un feu doux qu'on tourne toujours, c'est comme la mayonnaise &#224; peu pr&#232;s. Cela se garde et se mange froid pendant un ou deux jours--c'est tr&#232;s-riche.    POUR FOND DE CUISINE  SAUCE AU VEAU  Pour qu'une cuisine soit bonne, il faut toujours qu'elle ait une base ou fond de cuisine.--Ayez une bonne gel&#233;e, faite avec une tranche de jeune veau, un pied de veau, faites revenir dans la po&#234;le, comme pour faire du b&#x0153;uf &#224; la mode--ajoutez-y un petit morceau d'oignon, deux carottes tranch&#233;es en deux, une feuille de laurier, persil, sel et poivre, ajoutez deux tasses d'eau, laissez mijoter trois ou quatre heures, passez dans une passoire, laissez refroidir, enlevez la graisse et servez-vous de cela pour bassiner vos r&#244;tis, beefsteak, c&#244;telettes--coupez en petits morceaux et servez avec viandes froides et salade.--La m&#234;me sauce peut se faire avec des rogatons, pour un m&#233;nage &#233;conomique.  SAUCE TOMATE  Prenez une canne de tomates ou dix ou douze tomates bien fraiches, un petit oignon, sel, poivre persil--mettez dans une casserole un petit morceau de beurre--laissez mijoter deux ou trois heures--mettez dans un bol. Vous pourrez vous servir de cette sauce pour la soupe, pour &#233;paissir des ragouts, avec des &#x0153;ufs poch&#233;s, ce qui fait des &#x0153;ufs Portugais ou avec du riz ainsi qu'avec du macaroni, tout de suite vous avez un plat d&#233;licieux--tr&#232;s-utile et &#233;conomique pour les petits m&#233;nages.  SAUCE TARTARE  Dans un bol mettez deux jaunes d'&#x0153;uf une cuiller&#233;e &#224; th&#233; de moutarde, tournez et ajoutez de l'huile d'olive goutte &#224; goutte et tournant toujours et du m&#234;me c&#244;t&#233;; sans quitter la sauce, quand celle-ci est bien prise ajoutez sel et poivre, et un filet de vinaigre, just au moment de la finir mettez du persil, cerfeuil, ciboulette, un soup&#231;on d'&#233;chalotte ou oignon, le tout h&#226;ch&#233; tr&#232;s-fin, melang&#233; d&#233;licatement &#224; la sauce, pour ne pas la faire tourner.    Servez avec du poisson frit ou cuit au court-bouillon ou avec de la viande froide.  SAUCE HUBERT  Apr&#232;s cuisson d'&#233;chalottes dans du vinaigre passez-les dans un tamis, dans le m&#234;me tamis passez, foie de poulet qui aura cuit sur le gril, d&#233;layez peu &#224; peu avec un peu d'&#233;chalotte pass&#233;e; au moment de servir terminez le m&#233;lange, ajoutez le jus du r&#244;ti.  SAUCE BORDELAISE  Versez dans une casserole, 1-2 bouteille de vin de Bordeaux, ajoutez sel, piment, persil, &#233;chalotte h&#226;ch&#233;e. Faites r&#233;duire le liquide de moiti&#233; ajoutez-y un peu de sauce brune et sauce tomate, passez le tout &#224; l'&#233;tamine ou &#224; passoire, coupez en d&#233;s 1-4 de livre de Mo&#235;lle de b&#x0153;uf et servez bien chaud.  SAUCE BLANCHE  Prenez trois jaunes d'&#x0153;uf, mettez-les dans une petite casserole, ajoutez de la cr&#232;me, une cuiller&#233;e de beurre, faites cuire au bain-Marie, tournez la sauce tout le temps pour qu'elle prenne bien. Il faut faire la sauce une demi-heure avant d'en avoir besoin et au moment de la servir y ajouter un jus de citron ou quelques gouttes de vinaigre.  Pour des &#x0153;ufs &#224; la Morelle vous faites bouillir vingt minutes des &#x0153;ufs tr&#232;s-durs que vous coupez et ajoutez &#224; cette sauce avec un peu de jus d'oignon en ajoutant un peu de poivre rouge.  Cette m&#234;me sauce peut servir pour des hu&#238;;tres, ce qui fait des hu&#238;;tres &#224; la poulette.  SAUCE BEARNAISE  H&#226;chez six &#233;chalottes, mettez-les dans une casserole avec le quart d'un verre de vinaigre, faites r&#233;duire et passez &#224; la passoire. Dans une autre casserole mettez trois jaunes   d'&#x0153;uf, 150 grammes de beurre et faites au bain-Marie, apr&#232;s vous y additionnez de l'essence d'&#233;chalotte, un peu de gel&#233;e de viande et un jus de citron, cela ne doit pas bouillir.  HARICOTS VERTS  Mettez un petit oignon et un bouquet de persil, feuille de laurier, un rien de thym, attachez avec un fil, laissez bouillir quinze minutes--les haricots verts une demi heure &#224; peu pr&#232;s &#224; gros bouillons, comme les &#233;pinards, bien &#233;goutter tout de suite afin qu'ils ne se refroidissent pas--pour les s&#233;cher plus vite, les s&#233;cher dans une cuvette bien propre ou un morceau de "cheesecloth" qui a &#233;t&#233; bien lav&#233; auparavent, pas dans son neuf.  HARICOTS VERTS, MATIRE-D'HOTEL  Apr&#232;s avoir lav&#233; et &#233;pluch&#233; les haricots jetez-les dans l'eau bouillante, ajoutez-y une bonne poign&#233;e de sel, les faire cuire vivement, vingt &#224; vingt-cinq minutes suffisent, au moment de les servir il faut bien les &#233;goutter dans une pressoire, les mettre dans un l&#233;gumier avec un peu de sel et du beurre &#224; volont&#233;; remuez tr&#232;s-l&#233;g&#232;rement, la chaleur des haricots doit faire fondre le beurre, saupoudrez d'un peu de persil hach&#233; et servez, il faut surtout ne pas les laisser tremper dans l'eau avant de les faire cuire et ne pas les pr&#233;parer &#224; l'avance dans le l&#233;gumier et les &#233;goutter vivement pour qu'ils ne refroidissent pas.  Pour la cuisson environ quatre litres d'eau pour 500 grammes d'haricots.  PATATES DOUCES AU FOUR  Faites bouillir six patates pas trop grosses, on les &#233;pluche et les &#233;crase, ajoutez un peu d'eau, sel, poivre, sucre &#224; volont&#233;, une cuiller&#233;e de beurre, d&#233;layez bien jusqu'&#224; ce que cela soit d'une consistance de p&#226;te.--Mettez dans un plat au four, piquez avec une paille pour voir si c'est cuit. M&#234;me   recette pour pudding patate, en ajoutant deux &#x0153;ufs, une demi-tasse de lait et un peu de muscade.  Faites cuire au four des patates douces, tranch&#233;es et rissol&#233;es dans du beurre et du sucre; c'est delicieux avec du rosbeef. 
 OSEILLE  L'oseille doit &#234;tre bien &#233;pluch&#233;e et lav&#233;e. Mettez-la cuire &#224; l'eau bouillante &#224; grande eau et sal&#233;e, cinq minutes de cuisson, retirez-la avec pr&#233;caution et mettez-la dans une bassine d'eau froide si l'oseille est tr&#232;s-acide, faites cette op&#233;ration deux fois, retirez-la aussit&#244;t et &#233;gouttez-la bien. Dans une casserole, mettez un bon morceau de beurre, l'oseille et du sel, mettez sur le feu et remuez toujours afin que en fondant le beurre se lie bien &#224; l'oseille, ajoutez un peu de lait, encore un morceau de beurre et liez toujours, servez garni de croutons frits.  POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES  Coupez en lames de belles pommes de terre pas trop &#233;paisses, mettez-les &#224; la friture pas trop chaude, faites-les frire tout doucement, aussit&#244;t que vos pommes montent sur la friture, retirez-les, faites chauffer de nouveau votre friture bien chaude, plonges-les dedans jusqu'&#224; ce qu'elles soient bien gonfl&#233;es et s&#232;ches, retirez-les et servez.  LE CHEF--A. CHRISTI.  
 GRATIN AUX POMMES DE TERRE  Coupez les pommes de terre crues de la forme et de l'&#233;paisseur d'une piece de cinq francs. Beurrez un plat de fa&#239;ence qui va au four; placez une couche de pommes de terre saupoudr&#233;es de poivre, sel, d'un peu de fromage de Gruy&#232;re r&#226;p&#233;; ajoutez un peu de beurre. Superposez les couches de pommes de terre ainsi saupoudr&#233;es jusqu'&#224; ce que le plat soit plein. Recouvrez le tout d'une autre couche de fromage de Gruy&#232;re, poivre, sel, un peu de beurre. Mettez dans un four bien chaud; arrosez deux ou trois fois   d'un peu de bouillon ou de lait. Servez chaud.--Dans les campagnes fran&#231;aises on ne fait ce plat que les jours de grande lessive afin que le four soit tr&#232;s chaud; car si ce n'est pas saisi, au lieu d'&#234;tre excellent, ce mets est insipide. Il ne faut pas non plus employer d'autre fromage que celui de Gruy&#232;re, fraichement rap&#233;.  UNE SAVOISENNE.    LA SACCAMITE  La saccamit&#233; se mange avec des canards sauvages. Laissez tremper une tasse de saccamit&#233; dans deux litres d'eau froide toute la nuit, le lendemain laissez-le bouillir quatre heures sur un petit feu dans deux litres d'eau...il doit absorber toute l'eau--mettez-le dans un plat &#224; refroidir, coupez en tranches et faites frire dans du saindoux et servez chaud avec canards sauvages.  Les enfants l'aiment bien simplement bouilli en ajoutant du sucre et un peu de lait ou cr&#232;me.  Les restes de hominy peuvent s'utiliser de la m&#234;me mani&#232;re.  SALADE A LA DUC DE MORNY  Coupez en tr&#232;s-petites tranches des pommes de terre qui ont &#233;t&#233; bouillirs et sal&#233;es ne les laissez pas trop refroidir, assaisonnez-les avec poivre, sel, huile et vinaigre--coupez quelques truffes en tranches m&#234;me grandeur que les pommes de terre, m&#234;lez-les ensemble et versez par-dessus une jolie sauce mayonnaise.  BANANES  Epluchez et tranchez des bananes, roulez-les dans du sucre et faites frire dans du beurre frais.  Ou cuites enti&#232;res dans du sirop de b&#226;trie, comme une confiture ou bien dans leur peau au four.  CERVELLES DE MOUTON PANEES  Faites bouillir quinze minutes dans un litre d'eau, un oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et poivre; mettez trois   cervelles de mouton, tr&#232;s-fraiches et bien d&#233;gorg&#233;es, laissez bouillir dix minutes, retirez et laissez &#233;goutter dans un linge. Apr&#232;s qu'elles sont refroidies, coupez-les en petits morceaux carr&#233;s, embrochez-les avec petites brochettes en argent, roulez-les dans trois blancs d'&#x0153;ufs battus en neige, puis dans de la chapelure blanche, faites frire &#224; grande et bonne friture tr&#232;s-chaude, servez avec les brochettes, dressez et garnissez avec persil frit ou frais et tranches de citron, ne faire frire que juste au moment de servir, ce mets ne pouvant attendre, quelques minutes suffisent, faire vite et servir tr&#232;s-chaud et bien &#233;goutt&#233;.    CALAS  Bel Calas tout chauds! est le cri de la n&#233;gresse qui les vend dans la rue dans des bols en bois qu'elle porte sur la t&#234;te envelopp&#233;s d'une serviette bien propre. Les calas se mangent avec du caf&#233; au march&#233; le matin; c'est d&#233;licieux!  Une tasse de riz bien bouilli &#224; l'eau laissez refroidir, ajoutez une grande cuiller&#233;e de yeast et une demi-tasse d'eau on bat le tout ensemble le soir lendemain matin, ajoutez un &#x0153;uf, un peu de sel, une petite cuiller&#233;e de sucre, uen grande cuiller&#233;e de farine ordinaire, la farine de riz es pr&#233;f&#233;rable, mais difficile &#224; se procurer, battez le tout bien ensemble puis laissez tomber dans beaucoup de saindoux tr&#232;s-chaud, une cuiller&#233;e de ce m&#233;lange, retournez-les jusqu'&#224; ce qu'ils soient bien br&#251;nes...serviette bien chaude, pos&#233;e sur une assiette pr&#232;s du feu. Cela se mange avec le caf&#233; au lait.  CORNBREAD  Une tasse de corn meal, deux cuiller&#233;es de farine, une cuiller&#233;e &#224; caf&#233; de sucre, un peu de sel, un &#x0153;uf, une cuiller&#233;e de beurre, une demi cuiller&#233;e &#224; caf&#233; de baking powder bien battre le tout et faire cuire dans des moules beurr&#233;s.  MUFFINS  Une tasse de riz, et une cuiller&#233;e de beurre, 1 tasse de farine, 1 cuiller&#233;e &#224; soupe de sucre, 1 demi cuiller&#233;e &#224; caf&#233; de sel, 1 &#x0153;uf, 1 cuiller&#233;e &#224; caf&#233; de baking powder d&#233;laye au lait doux, battre, faire p&#226;te lisse, cuire dans des moules beurr&#233;s.  PAIN BLANC  Deux quarts 1-2 ou 3 quarts de farine. Mettre dans la farine, &#224; sec une grande cuiller&#233;e de sel, et une de sucre. Puis faire tremper et dissoudre dans une tasse d'eau, un petit paquet de yeast, puis le m&#234;ler &#224; la farine. Fondre    MARCHAND DE MOUTARDE Tout le mon - de me - re-gard - e mais per-son - ne n'achete rien achetez de la mou-tar-de &#231;e-la vous fer - a du bi-en  An illustration of a music sheet with music bars, notes, and the words to the song under them.        THE OLD FRENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW ORLEANS  An illustration of a man with a tray attached to a strap that is around his neck. His hand is near his head, and he is wearing an apron.       dans un fer blanc, une cuiller&#233;e de beurre et une de saindoux (lard). Ajouter &#224; ce m&#233;lange fondu, 2 tass&#233;es de lait et une d'eau, jeter ce liquide en 2 ou 3 fois dans la farine, et bien tourner avec une cuiller&#233;e ou un couteau, jusqu'&#224; ce que le fond du plat soit net ainsi que la cuill&#232;re. Laisser lever toute la nuit dans un endroit temp&#233;r&#233; et le lendemain matin retourner la p&#226;te 2 ou 3 fois, et la diviser en pains.  PAIN NOIR  Pour le pain noir faire de la m&#234;me mani&#232;re, except&#233;, avoir 2 quarts de farine au lieu de trois et ajouter une demi tasse de sirop.  MARYLAND BISCUITS  Pour le th&#233; de cinq heures. Mettez dans un bol une tasse de farine, ajoutez-y deux cuiller&#233;es &#224; th&#233; de baking powder, un quart de cuiller&#233;e &#224; th&#233; de sel, travaillez le tout avec un couteau ajoutez une demi-pinte de cr&#234;me. Travaillez le tout jusqu'&#224; ce que cela forme une bonne p&#226;te; sur une planche, roulez-le &#224; l'&#233;paisseur d'un pouce. Mettez au four assez chaud 10 minutes. Coupez-les en deux et trempez-les dans du beurre fondu; remettez-les ensemble au four pendant 3 minutes. L&#233;gers et d&#233;licieux.  GATEAU SEC DE LEONIE PENIN  Prenez 1 tasse de sucre, 1 tasse de lait, 1 tasse de farine, mettez 3 &#x0153;ufs tout ensemble blanc et jaune dans un bol; m&#233;langez le tout ensemble, bien travaill&#233;, faites cuire dans des assiettes en fer blanc beurr&#233;es et saupoudrez d'un peu de farine.  Faites plus &#233;pais pour un g&#226;teau chocolat, que vous tranchez et y mettez une confiture d'abricots.--3 tablettes de chocolat Menier ou un quart, une tasse de lait, faites bouillir le lait, mettez le chocolat dedans, faites dissoudre le chocolat en le tournant, laissez cuire un quart d'heure.--Laissez refroidir et appliquez sur le g&#226;teau.    UN PUDDING DE MAIS  Prenez 5 &#233;pis ma&#239;s que vous faites bouillir, r&#226;pez mettez-les dans un bol, ajoutez une cuiller&#233;e de sucre, une pinc&#233;e de sel, une grande cuiller&#233;e de cr&#232;me, 4 jaunes d'&#x0153;uf, battez 4 blancs d'&#x0153;uf en neige, m&#233;langez le tout bien ensemble et versez dans un plat beurr&#233;, mettez au four une demi-heure assez chaud comme pour faire du soufflet.  RECETTE DE LA GENOISE  Mettez deux &#x0153;ufs dans une balance, pesez de l'autre c&#244;t&#233; autant de sucre en poudre que ce poids, autant de beurre, m&#234;me quantit&#233; de farine. Faites fondre un peu de beurre cassez les &#x0153;ufs, sans battre, ni blanc, ni jaune m&#233;langez bien le tout ensemble, ajoutez-y une petite pinc&#233;e de sel, beurrez un peu un plat en fer blanc et faites cuire. On peut ajouter quelques amandes pil&#233;es, si on les aime. On peut aussi rouler cette p&#226;te et en faire des petits g&#226;teaux secs pour le th&#233;, c'est tr&#232;s-bon, ou les d&#233;coupe avec un verre ou autre moule. 
 FROMAGE A LA CREME  Dans un endroit frais, sans &#234;tre &#224; la glaci&#232;re, laissez tourner un litre ou deux de bon lait; quand il est tr&#232;s-ferme, mettez &#233;goutter dans un linge en le tenant suspendu pendant une nuit; le lendemain d&#233;tachez et mettez dans une terrine avec un grain de sel et une pinc&#233;e de sucre, bien battre jusqu'&#224; que ce soit un p&#226;te l&#233;g&#232;re et lisse, mettez dans des petits moules trou&#233;s ou petits paniers, garnis d'un linge propre et sec. Mettez-les pendant deux heures sur la glace, renverez-les dans un compotier et versez dessus de la cr&#232;me douce, servez. On peut se servir plusiers fois des m&#234;mes linges en ayant soin de les laver aussit&#244;t, mais ne jamais user de savon, faites bouillir avec "washing soda," rincez et laissez tromper longtemps &#224; l'eau fra&#238;;che et faites-les bien s&#232;cher au grand air.  --LEONIE PENIN.  
  CREME A LA GLACE A LA CELESTINE  Prenez 6 jaunes d'&#x0153;uf, 1 blanc, une demi livre de chocolat extra fin, 2 tasses de sucre, un quart de litre de cr&#232;me bien fra&#238;;che, un morceau de vanille. Battez les jaunes d'&#x0153;uf dans un bol, ajoutez les blancs, puis le sucre (battez ferme), et ajoutez la cr&#234;me. Faites dissoudre le chocolat dans du lait chaud, puis laissez-le &#233;paissir dans un Bain-Marie, en ajoutant de la vanille, versez le dans un bol, puis passez dans un tamis, faites glacer, puis mettez dans un moule sur la glace.  RIZ A L'ANGLAISE  1-2 kilogramme de riz cuit dans, 2 litres de lait--pour la cr&#232;me anglaise; 1-2 kilogramme de sucre, 3-4 litre de lait, 7 &#x0153;ufs entiers; 45 grammes de gelatine, 3-4 litre de cr&#232;me fouett&#233;e. Quelques fruits coup&#233;s.  GATEAU DE MOUSSELINE  Sept &#x0153;ufs, une demi-livre de sucre un quart de f&#233;cule de pomme de terre. Battez le jaune avec le sucre, ajoutez la f&#233;cule, et apr&#232;s le blanc bien battu. Passez le sucre et la f&#233;cule au soleil.  POMMES CUITES A LA THOMAS JEFFERSON  Prenez 6 ou 8 belles pommes, &#233;pluchez-les en ayant soin d'enlever le c&#x0153;ur, que vous remplissez de sucre brut, mettez-les dans un fer blanc, saupoudrez-les du m&#234;me sucre, posez par dessus quelques tranches de citron et un morceau de canelle, arrosez avec quelques cuiller&#233;es d'eau et mettez-les au four; les pommes seront dor&#233;es et auront une belle gel&#233;e. Cela se mange avec de la cr&#232;me.  --EDGEHILL,  Virginia.    FLAN AUX CERISES  Garnissez le moule &#224; flan avec de la p&#226;te bris&#233;e, abaiss&#233;e &#224; un demi-centim&#232;tre. Saupoudrez d'une bonne couche de   sucre en poudre. Retirez les noyaux de vos cerises, et rangez celles-ci sur le flan. Mettez au four une demi-heure, laissez refroidir, et si vous poss&#233;dez de la confiture de cerises, mettez en une couche l&#233;g&#232;re sur les cerises.  --M. MELVY.   GATEAU PRALINE OU ILE FLOTTANTE  Pulv&#233;risez un quart de livre de pralines grises. Battez en neige 4 blancs d'&#x0153;ufs, ajoutez les pralines en poudre, sucre &#224; volont&#233; faites ce m&#233;lange vivement et sans battre de nouveau, mettez dans un moule, que vous avez enduit de caramel, mettez au bain-marie et au four pas trop chaud, laissez 20 minutes, faites refroidir et d&#233;moulez au moment de servir, garnissez avec une cr&#232;me &#224; la vanille.  --LEONIE PENIN.   PETIT AVIS AUX MENAGERES  Les pieds de veau que l'on retire d'une daube peuvent se r&#233;chauffer. On peut aussi faire cuire des riz de veau avec un petit morceau de veau, un oignon, et persil chily sauce. Un moment avant de les retirer du feu, ajouter dans la sauce cette sauce tomate que l'on vend en bouteille. Il faut passer les riz de veau quelques minutes dans l'eau chaude, pas bouillante, les laisser &#233;goutter, faire cuire le veau un peu avant de le mettre avec et que la sauce soit un peu brune.  Lavez vite &#224; grande eau vos l&#233;gumes verts ne les laissez jamais tremper dans l'eau.  Z'AFFAIRE CABRI C'EST PAS Z'AFFAIRE MOUTON  Ti mouton la queu coup&#233; train train du ballet  Sapoti! bombi! sapoti bombi coffer to t&#233; pas h&#233;l&#233;  Comment vos tu que je h&#232;le!  Petit moso papier pous suyer nez t&#233;t&#233;s--  Cot&#233; tap&#233; courri? yap&#233; golloper!    La cuisine est comme la jardinage il y a toujours quelque chose &#224; apprendre.  POUR FAIRE DU BON CAFE  Faire du bon caf&#233;! Le conseil a l'air d&#233;bonnaire; mais, dans la pratique, les difficult&#233;s abondent. Voici ce que conseille, &#224; ce sujet, aux m&#233;nag&#232;res m&#233;ticuleuses et pr&#233;voyantes le "Revue universelle."  Prendre un filtre en fer-blanc tout simplement; les filtres en fer-blanc sont les meilleurs. Cet outillage modeste &#233;tant organis&#233; comme il convient, placez votre caf&#233; moulu sur le filtre, 10 grammes par tasse suffisent; quand l'eau est &#224; moiti&#233; chaude, arrosez pour le pr&#233;parer &#224; recevoir les infusions et faciliter le filtrage. Quand l'eau bout, jetez-la en quatre fois sur le caf&#233;: la premi&#232;re infusion entra&#238;;ne la force dudit caf&#233;, la deuxi&#232;me une partie du caf&#233;, la troisi&#232;me et quatri&#232;me le d&#233;pouillent de tout ce qui aurait pu r&#233;sister aux autres infusions. Sous aucun pr&#233;texte ne mettre le caf&#233; sur le feu, il n'y a pas de moyen plus s&#251;r pour en d&#233;truire toutes ses qualit&#233;s. Tenez l'appareil servant au caf&#233; avec la plus grande propret&#233;. Souvent, le mauvais go&#251;t qu'on trouve provient d'un manque de lavage &#224; l'eau froide. Il faut trois ou quatre m&#233;langes pour faire du bon caf&#233;, et bien grill&#233; clair: moka, bourbon, martinique.  THE END  
 
 
    
    THE BOOK OF THE CENTURY  HARPER'S COOK BOOK ENCYCLOP&#230;DIA.  Edited by the Editor of  Harper's Bazar.  Contributions and Recipes by all the famous living authorities. Bound in Washable Pigskin-Colored Specially Prepared Leather Cloth. Illustrated. $1.50 net (postage extra).  This is  the  cook book of the 20th century. There is no other cook book which is  made like a dictionary,  with complete cross references and alphabetical finger guides, so that you can turn instantly to what you want. It contains a comprehensive number of approved recipes, which represent the most famous cooking authorities of the world. The book is indispensable to every household, experienced or otherwise.  The King of Cook Books.-- St. Louis Globe-Democrat.   About the last word in cooking, it is so complete.-- Public Opinion,  New York.  Never before has there been such a cook book as is this one.-- Louisville Courier-Journal.    The  cook book of the century; it is an easy matter to turn instantly to whatever one may require in way of a receipt.-- Boston Gazette.   More methods of assembling food and ingredients than were ever before gathered between the covers of a single volume.-- Baltimore Morning Herald.   It is a wonder that nobody ever before thought of the happy device of preparing a cookery book on the principle which underlies the Cook Book Encylop&#230;dia.-- Literary World.   A distinct boon to the housekeeper who is in a hurry. Its arrangement of recipes resembles that of a dictionary, and one may find on the instant the particular recipe which she is in search of, without turning page after page or referring again and again to the index.-- New York Tribune.   HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS NEW YORK AND LONDON    BY MRS. M. E. W. SHERWOOD  MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES in America. A Book of Etiquette. New Edition, attractively bound and Illustrated. Cloth, $1.25.  This is the standard book of etiquette for America. Mrs. Sherwood knows what our manners ought to be, and what our correct social usages are, better than any other writer upon these subjects. Besides the advantages of a vast social experience, both in Europe and America, she has also the gift of writing clearly and to the point. There is no difficulty in understanding her. In this admirable book she has touched upon all those points, no matter how trifling, which puzzle the young or the inexperienced. And she has so enlivened her explanations and instructions with the wit and wisdom of a cultured and gently bred woman of the world, that it is interesting reading from first to last.  HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS NEW YORK AND LONDON    An illustration of a hand pointing to the text   The above work will be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, or Mexico, on receipt of the price.     BY ANNE FRANCES SPRINGSTEED  THE EXPERT WAITRESS: A Manual for Pantry, Kitchen, and Dining-room. 131 pages, $1.00.  This little volume gives admirably clear and precise directions as to the whole duty of a waitress at breakfast, luncheon, afternoon tea, dinner, and supper, together with instructions in regard to the household work pertaining to the dining-room and pantry.  The author in her preface says, "These papers are intended rather as a working model than as a set of rules from which there is no appeal. It is recognized that tastes and opinions vary as much as do the various dining-rooms in which they are expressed. In writing these papers, one idea has been kept in mind: No rule has been laid down that has not a good reason for its existence. Some things, desirable in themselves, have been omitted because they are not possible to one pair of hands and feet, even when guided by a well-regulated brain."  HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS NEW YORK AND LONDON    An illustration of a hand pointing to the text   The above work will be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, or Mexico, on receipt of the price.     BY MARIANNA WHEELER  THE BABY: HIS CARE AND TRAINING. Illustrated. 189 pages, $1.00  net (postage extra).   Miss Wheeler has been for ten years the head nurse and general director of the Babies' Hospital of New York.   The teachings of the author of this volume abound in genuine good sense and are commended to all mothers.-- Chicago Inter-Ocean.   What the author of this book does not know about the care of the baby cannot be worth knowing.-- Literary World.   A practical little volume, well written and of wise counsel. All the wisdom of the trained nurse seems to be compressed into its pages.-- Kansas City Star.   It covers every subject bearing upon the baby's first few years of life and will be a decided help to mothers.-- Chicago Daily News.   The author begins with the first minutes of the baby's life, and with a careful attention to detail for which many a young mother will be grateful.--  Phrenological Journal.   Miss Wheeler's book is eminently sensible. It contains a host of timely hints and rules. It will be valuable to every young mother, and particularly so as the modifications of time and circumstances and motherhood will give to the directions laid down a human practicability.-- Baltimore Sun.   A model book of its kind and filled with sensible suggestions regarding the care of the infant in all the minor matters pertaining to its health and comfort. The young mother who may take upon herself the responsibilities of the nurse will find in this small volume an abundance of useful hints to guide her in all the little emergencies which may arise in the discharge of her multitudinous functions.-- Medical Record,  N.Y.  HARPER &amp; BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS NEW YORK AND LONDON  
            
    
 
 
